---
layout: post
title: Week 11
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<!--more-->

**Notes on [The New Methodology](https://www.martinfowler.com/articles/newMethodology.html)**

* From Nothing, to Monumental, to Agile
	* Most software development is a chaotic activity, often characterized by the phrase "code and fix". 
	* Engineering methodlogies (plan-driven methodologies): developing a detailed process with a strong emphasis on planning inspired by other engineering disciplines. 
	* Agile methodologies: For many people the appeal of these agile methodologies is their reaction to the bureaucracy of the engineering methodologies. This was a useful compromise between no process and too much process, providing just enough process to gain a reasonable payoff. 
		* Agile methods are adaptive rather than predictive. 
		* Agile methods are people-oriented rather than process-oriented. 
* Predictive versus Adaptive
	* Separation of Design and Construction: We see two fundamentally different activities. Design which is difficult to predict and requires expensive and creative people, and construction which is easier to predict. Once we have the design, we can plan the construction. 
		* In software: construction is so cheap as to be free
		* In software all the effort is design, and thus requires creative and talented people.
		* Creative processes are not easily planned, and so predictability may well be an impossible target
		* We should be very wary of the traditional engineering metaphor for building software. It's a different kind of activity and requires a different process. 
* The Unpredictability of Requirements
	* Estimation is hard for many reasons. Part of it is that software development is a design activity, and thus hard to plan and cost. Part of it is that the basic materials keep changing rapidly. Part of it is that so much depends on which individual people are involved, and individuals are hard to predict and qunaitfy. 
	* After all, software is suppose to be 'soft'. So not just are requirements changeable, they ought to be changeable. 
* Is Predictability Impossible?
	* In general, no. 
	* One of the big dangers is to pretend that you can follow a predictable process when you can't. People who work on methodology are not very good at identifying boundary conditions: the places where the methodology passes from appropriate to inappropriate. 
* Controlling an Unpredictable Process - Iterations
	* The most important, and still difficult part is to know accurately where we are. 
	* The key to this feedback is iterative development. 
	* The point of this is that there is nothing like a tested, integrated system for bringing a forceful dose of reality into any project. 
* The Adaptive Customer
	* This kind of adaptive process requires a different kind of relationship with a customer than the ones that are often considered, particularly when development is done by a separate firm. 
	* "A late change in requirements is a competitive advantage".
* Putting People First
	* There's an interesting synergy: not just does adaptivity require a strong team, most good developers prefer an adaptive process.
* Plug-Compatible Programming Units.
	* One of the aims of traditional methodologies is to develop a process wehere the people involved are replaceable parts. 
	* Deciding that people come first is a big decision, one that requires a lot of determination to push through. 
* Programmers are Responsible Professionals
	* A key part of the Taylorist notion is that people doing the work are not the people who can best figure out how best to do that work. 
	* The Taylorist notion of a separate planning department that decides how to do things only works if the planners understand how to do the job better than those doing it. if you have bright, motivated people doing the job then this does not hold. 
* Managing a People Oriented Process
	* People orientation manifests itself in a number of different ways in agile processes. 
	* one of the key elements is that of accepting the process rather than the imposition of a process. Often software processes are imposed by management figures. 
	* This ends up with the interesting result that only the developers themselves can choose to follow an adaptive process.
* The Difficulty of Measurement
	* If you have a process where the people who say how work should be done are different from the people who actually do it, the leaders need some way of measuring how effective the doers are. 
	* The point of all this is that traditional methods have operated under the assumption that measurement-based management is the most efficient way of managing. 
* The Role of Business Leadership 
	* Technical people cannot do the whole process themselves. They need guiadance on the business needs. This leads to another important aspect of adaptive processes: they need very close contact with business expertice. 
* The Self-Adaptive Process
	* At the end of each iteration, have a short meeting and ask yourself the following questions:
		* What did we do well?
		* What have we learned?
		* What can we do better?
		* What puzzles us?
* Flavors of Agile Development
	* The term 'agile' refers to a philosophy of software development. Each community is a distinct group of its own but to be correctly called agile it should follow the same broad principles. Each community also borrows from ideas and techniques from each other. 
* Agile Manifesto
	* The term 'agile' got hijacked for this activity in early 2001 when a bunch of people who had been heavily involved in this work got together to exchange ideas and came up with Manifesto for Agile Software Development.
* XP (Extreme Programming)
	* XP begins with five values (communication, feedback, simplicity, courage, and respect). It then elaborates these into fourteen principles and again into twenty-four practices. 
	* One of the most striking, as well as initially appealing to me, is its strong emphasis on testing. While all processes mention testing, most do so with a pretty low emphasis. 
* Scrum
	* Scrum concentrates on the management aspects of software development, dividing development into thirty day iterations (called 'sprints') and applying closer monitoring and control with daily scrum meetings. It places much less emphasis on engineering practices and many people combine its project management approach with extreme programming's engineering practies. 
* Crystal
	* The habitability priority is an important part of the crystal mind-set. Alistair's quest is looking for what is the least amount of process you can do and still succeed with an underlying assumption of low-discipline that is inevitable with humans. 
* Context Driven Testing
	* One group is testers, who often live in a world very much contained by waterfall thinking. With common guidelines that state that the role of testing is to ensure conformance of software to up-front written specifications, the role of testers in an agile world is far from clear.
* Lean Development
	* The lean movement in manufacturing was pioneered by Taiichi Ohno at Toyota and is often known as the Toyota Production System. Lead production was an inspriation to many of the early agilists - the Pppendiecks are most notable to describing how thesese ideas interact. 
* (Rational) Unified Process
	* RUP is a very large collection of practices and is really a process framework rather than a process. Rather than give a single process for software development it seeks to provide a common set of practices for teams to choose from for a individual project. As a result a team's first sttep using RUP should be to define their individual process, or as RUP calls it, a development case.
* Should you go agile?
	* Using an gile method is not for everyone. There are a number of things to bear in mind if you decide to follow this path. However, these mthodologies are widely applicable and should be used by more people than currenetly consider them.

**Notes on [Continuous Integration](https://martinfowler.com/articles/continuousIntegration.html)**

* Building a Feature with Continuous Integration
	* The result of doing CI is that there is a stable piece of software that works properly and contains few bugs. Everybody develops off that shared stabel base and never gets so far away from that base that it takes very long to integrate back with it. Less time is spent trying to find bugs because they show up quickly.
* Practices of Continuous Integration
* Maintain a Single Source Repository
	* In particular have a mainline: a single branch of the project currently under development. Pretty much everyone should work off this mainline most of the time.
	* In general you should store in source control everything you need to build anything, but nothing that you actually build. 
* Automate the Build
	* Getting the sources turned into a running system can often be a complicated process involving compilation, moving files around, loading schemas into the databases, and so on. 
	* Many of us use IDEs, and most IDEs have some kind of build management process within them. However these files are always propiertary to the IDE and often fragile. Furthermore they need the IDE to work. 
* Make your Build Self-Testing
	* A good way to catch bugs more quickly and efficiently is to include automated tests in the build process.
	* Of course you can't count on tests to find everything. As it's often been said: tests don't prove the absence of bugs. However perfection isn't the only point at which you get payback for a self-testing building. Imperfect tests, run frequently, are much better than perfect tests that are never written at all. 
* Everyone Commits to the Mainline Every Day
	* Integration is primarily about communication. Ingration allows developers to tell other developers about the changes they have made. Fequent communication allows people to know quickly as changes develop.
	* General rule of thumb is that every developer should commit to the repo every day. In practice it's often useful if developers commit more frequently than that. The more frequently you commit, the less places you have to look for conflict errors, and the more rapidly you fix conflicts. 
* Every Commit Should Build the Mainline on an Integration Machine
	* Using daily commits, a team gets frequent tested builds.
	* The whole point of continuous build is to find problems as soon as you can. Nightly builds mean that bugs lie undetected for a whole day before anyone discovers them. Once they are in the system that long, it takes a long time to find and remove them.
* Fix Broken Builds Immediately
	* A key part of doing a continuous build is that if the mainline build fails, it needs to be fixed right away. 
	* Often the fasted way to fix the build is to revert the latest commit from the mainline, taking the system back to the last-known good build. Certainly the team should not try to do any debugging on a broken mainline. 
* Keep the Build Fast
	* The whole point of CI is to provide rapid feedback. 
	* Probably the most crucial step is to start workingon setting up a deployment pipeline. The idea behind a deployment pipeline (also known as build pipeline or staged build) is that there are in fact multiple builds done in sequence. The commit to the mainline triggers the first build - what I call the commit build. The commit build is the build that's needed when someone commits to the mainline. The commit build is the one that has to be done quickly.
* Test in a Clone of the Production Environment
	* The point of testing is to flush out, under controlled conditions, any problem that the sytem will ahve in production. 
* Make it Easy for Anyone to Get the Latest Executable
	* One of the most difficult parts of software development is making sure that you build the right software. 
	* Doing this is pretty straightfoward: make sure there's a well known place where people can find the latest executable. 
* Eveyone can see what's happening
	* One of the most important things to communicate is the state of the mainline build. 
	* Another advantage of using a web site is that those that are not co-located can get a sense of project's status.
	* Good information displays are not only those on a computer screens.
* Automate Deployment
	* A natural consequence of this is that you should also have scripts that allow you to deploy into production with similar ease. 
* Benefits of CI
	* CI doesn't get rid of bugs, but it does make them dramatically easier to find and remove. In this respect it's rather like self-testing code. 
	* Bugs are also cumulative. The more bugs you have, the harder it is to remove each one. 
* Introducting CI
	* One of the first steps is to get the build automated. Get everything into source control. Introduce some automated testing into your build. 
	* Speed up commit build. 	

**Refactoring: Ch. 9-10**

Wasn't able to catch up on the readings yet. I plan to this week. 

**What did I do this past week?**
I spent this past week reviewing over what we have gone through this week in SWE. We've been going over refactoring and some Java conventions. It's really helpful going over these because the concepts are overlaying with other languages as well. I'm a little confused on Singleton Pattern, but I plan to review over it soon.

**What's in my way?**
What's in my way is that I'm falling behind on the readings. The Refactoring book is pretty hefty and it's getting hard to balance everything else going on with the readings.

**What will I do next week?**
I plan to catch up on all my readings, make stories for our project, and work more on the front end with my partner Ben. Our group is planning to do the extra credit assignment as well, so we'll probably to try get into a group meeting and discuss about that as well. We also need to implement the Super Smash API in our website as well. This week is going to be extremely busy.

**TIP-OF-THE-WEEK**
[Robert J. Lang](http://www.langorigami.com/) is a master origami artist and used to work for NASA. If you didn't know, making your own designs in origami uses very complex algorithms. For a certain node, there can only be a certain amount of edges that can connect to it for it to fold into a particular fold. There are many other master origami masters, but this is one of the more well-known ones.