---
layout: post
title: Week 6
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<!--more-->

**Notes on [The Single Responsibility Principle](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/fares/papers/SRP.pdf)**

* Why is it important to separte responsibilites into separate classes? 
	* Because each responsibility is an axis of change. When the requirements change, that change will be manifest through a change in responsibility amongst the classes. If a class assumes more than one responsibility, then there will be more than one reason for it to change. 
* An axis of change is only an axis of change if the changes actually occur.
* There are often reasons, having to do with the details of the hardware or OS, that force us to couple things that we'd rather not couple.
* Finding and separating responsibilities from one another is much of what software design is really about.

**Notes on [The Open-Closed Principle](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/fares/papers/OCP.pdf)**

* Bertrand Meyer:
	> Software entities (classes, modules functions, etc.) should be open for extension but closed for modification.
* Modules that conform to the open-closed principle have two primary attributes:
	1. They are "Open for Extension":
		* This means that the behavior of the module can be extended. That we can make the module behave in new and different ways as the requirements of the application change, or to meet the needs of new applications.
	2. They are "Closed for Modification":
		* The source code of such a module is inviolate. No one is allowed to make source code changes to it. 
* Since closure cannot be complete, always 100%, closure must be strategic. That is, the designer must choose the kinds of changes against which to close his design. 
* One of the most commonly held of all the conventions of OOD. Member variables of classes should be known only to the methods of the class that defines them. Member variables should never be known to any other class, including derived classes. Thus they should be declared private, rather than public or protected.
* The argument against global variables is similar to the argument against public member variables. No module that depends upon a global variable can be closed against any other module that might write to that variable. 
* Another very common proscription is the one against dynamic_cast. It is often claimed that dynamic_cast, or any form of run time type identification (RTTI) is instrinsically dangerous and should be avoided. 

**Javascript: The Good Parts**

Regular Expressions
* Flags
	* g flag: Global (match multiple times; the precise meaning of this varies with the method)
	* i flag: insensitive (ignore character case)
	* m flag: Multiline (^ and $ can match line-ending characters)

**DD: UML & SQL**

### Design Pattern: Many-to-Many (order entry)
* Design Patterns: modeling situations that you will find over and over again.
* Many-to-many: the maximum multiplicity in each direction is "many", for example, each product will contain zero or more orders. 
* Association class: showing attributes of association between the Order and the Product. 
* Derived attributes: don't need to be included in the relation scheme, so their names in the class diagram are preceeded by "/". 
* Junction table: every many-to-many needs this table in order to show the scheme of this table in a diagram. 

### Design Pattern: Many-to-Many with History (the library loan)
* Discriminator Attribute: discriminate between the multiple pairings of customer and book. 

### Design Pattern: Subkeys (the zip code)**
* Functional Dependcy (FD): formal term for the super key property. If X and Y are sets of attributes, then the notation X-> Y is read "X funcitonally determines Y" or "Y is functionally dependent on X". This means that if I'm given a table filled with data plus the value of the attributes in X, then I can uniquely determine the value of the attributes in Y. A super key always functionally determines all of the other attributes in a relation (as well as itself).
* Subkey: "bad" FD happens when we have an attribute or set of attributes that are a super key for some of the other attributes in the realtion, but not a super key for the entire relation. 
* Lossless Join Decomposition: basically a subset that is cut off from the original table
* Normalization: following a procedrue or set of rules to insure that a database is well designed. Most rules are meant to eliminate redundant data (that is, unnecessary duplicate data) in the db. 
* Third Normal Form (3NF): where there are no subkeys in any of the tables in your database, you have a well-designed model. 
* Boyce-Codd Normal Form (BCNF): the strict no-subkey form
* Partial FDs and Transitive FDs: both are subkeys - the first where the subkey is part of a primary key, the second isn't. 

### Design Pattern: Repeated Attributes (the phone book)
* NULL: special constant value in db systems that means "this field doesn't have any value assigned to it."
* Repeated Attribute: attribute of its own that tells us what type of phone it is. 
* Weak Entity: where a class can't exist without the parent entity type. 

### Design Pattern: Multivalued Attributes (hobbies)
* Multivalued Attribute: many distinct values entered for it in the same column of the table.

### Discussion: More About Domains
* Data Integrity: part of which means insuring that the value entered in each field of a table is consistent w/ its attribute domain. 
* Validation Rule: to separate good from bad data; sometimes we can't. 

### Design Patter: Enumerated Domains
* Enumerated Domains: attribute domains that may be specified by a well-defined, reasonably-sized set of constant values

### Design Pattern: Subclasses
* Subclass: one or more attributes of a class are characteristics of only some individuals of that class, but not of others. 
* Specialization "top down": a class that represents a subset of another class type can also be called a specialization of its parent class.
* Specialization Constraints: constraints are described along two dimensions: incomplete versus complete, and disjoint versus overlapping. 
* Incomplete/Partial Specialization: only some individuals of the parent class are specialied (that is, have unique attributes). Other individuals of the parent class have only the common attributes. 
* Complete Specialization: All individuals of the parent class have one or more unique attributes that are not common to the gernalized (parent) class. 
* Disjoint/Exclusive Specialization: an individual of the parent class may be a member of only one specialized subclass.
* Overlapping Specialization: an individual of the parent class may be a member of more than one of the specialized subclasses. 
* Superclass: finding unique attributes in a single class type, might find two or more classes that have many of the same attributes.
* Generalization "bottom up": a class or entity that represents a superset of other class types can also be called a generalization of the child types. 

### Design Pattern: Aggregation
* Aggregation: a class type representing a collection of individual components
* Composition: stronger form of aggregation. The notation is similar, using a filled-in diamond instead of an open one. Component instances cannot exist on their own w/o a parent; they are created w/ (or after) the parent and they are deleted if the parent is deleted. 

### Design Pattern: Recursive Associations
* Recursive Association: connects a single class type (serving in one role) to itself (serving in another role).

### Appendix: Traditional Normalization
* Normal Forms: process of applying a set of rules to your database design, mostly to achieve minimum redundancy in the data. 
* Denormalization: example would be "phone book" problem, storing the city and state attributes in the basic contacts table, rather than making a separate zip codes table. 

**What did I do this past week?**

Since we did not have a project due this week for SWE, I spent most of the week working on my project for security with my partner. We had to implement a covert channel between two subjects. The project itself wasn't too bad but my partner and I wanted to have very good stylings and conventions of how our code looks so it is pretty much the prettiest code I have ever dealt with. 

**What's in my way?**

Something that's been in my way is feeling fatigued. I don't know why, but I've been feeling mentally weak this past week. It may be a lack of sleep and a little bit of malnourishment whenever I don't have time to eat. A goal for next week is to get plenty of sleep, 8 preferably, and eating 2 or meals a week. Oh, also, I've been working on filing my own taxes this year. So, I just filed them and hopefully they're approved and learn from this year of how to file my own taxes in the future! 

**What will I do next week?**

This upcoming week, I have my SWE test, two Japanese tests, and an interview to prep for. I'm just using this weekend to prep for everything next week since it is going to be a super busy week. After next week, it should be somewhat smooth sailing to spring break (hopefully).

**TIP-OF-THE-WEEK**

Well, [Cloudbleed (link to article)](https://blog.cloudflare.com/incident-report-on-memory-leak-caused-by-cloudflare-parser-bug/) just happened. Basically, there are leaks of very sensitive information floating around the internet correlating to the websites that uses CloudFlare now.

This [GitHub repo](https://github.com/pirate/sites-using-cloudflare) has most of the websites that uses CloudFlare. 

