---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

**Notes on [A Bug and a Crash](https://around.com/ariane.html)**

Wow. One bug. One crash. Billions of dollars. Sad situation.

**Notes on [Mariner 1](http://webcache.googleusercontent.com/search?q=cache:ZBWTovsmUrMJ:nssdc.gsfc.nasa.gov/nmc/spacecraftDisplay.do%3Fid%3DMARIN1+&cd=1&hl=en&ct=clnk&gl=us)**

Sad news for Mariner 1. Considering it's NASA, I'm sure they recovered from that and are more prepared to triple-check, or more, their works. 

**Javascript: The Good Parts:**
Inheritance:

For Javascript, when using inheritance, use the prototypes instead of constructors. 

**Extreme Programming:**

Checklist to see if your project has XP foundation at the end:
* well designed 
* well crafted
* flexibly structured
* properly documented
* tested
* meeting known and documented requirements

Keep working on stories and keep record to have a better estimate of you velocity when working on stories for the next meeting throughout. 

To ensure that everybody is on the same page:
* Resources
* Scope
* Quality
* Time
* Tracking and Reporting Scope
* Tracking and Reporting Quality

Advice on what to include in your daily journal:

* Number of classes and methods by date
* Number of test classes, methods, and asserts by date
* Number of stories available by date
* Number of stories replaced, destroyed, split by date
* Risks identified
* Daily journal of feelings and obversations
* Significant events or comments made by people

**What did I do this past week?**

This past week, I have worked on the Netflix project with my partner and have progressed very well. I have kept up with the reading (surprisingly) and enjoyed reading our selection of books. So far, I like the pace that our class is going. I am able to understand and comprehend the lectures and look back at them to help me process what I learned and how to apply them in our programs. 

**What's in my way?**

Unfortunately, I have fallen really ill today. Hopefully I am able to recover fast so I can keep up with lectures and materials in all my classes, especially SWE. Other than that, I'm looking forward to finish our Netflix project. 

**What will I do next week?**

Next week, I am hopefully going to apply for full-time jobs. It has been on my to-do list for 3 months now and kept putting it off because I always have immediate matters to take care of. Fortunately, I'm pretty ahead and caught up with my classes. So, best wishes on my job hunt! ^_^

**TIP-OF-THE-WEEK**

I found this article a while ago and it's a good breakdown of what to look out for in a general sense if you want to make your website "secure" against hackers. 
[9 Security Tips to Protect Your Website from Hackers](http://www.creativebloq.com/web-design/website-security-tips-protect-your-site-7122853)
