---
layout: post
title: Exam Ref 70-480 | Chapter 4
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<!--more-->
### Use CSS3 in Applications

> NOTE: VARYING RESULTS:
    You might see slightly different results in some of the code samples. Not all features work in all browsers. IE 11 and Chrome v35+ were used to validate the examples throughout this chapter.

### Objective 4.1: Style HTML text properties
CSS3 color values take in:
    + Hexadecimal values
    + Color name
    + RGB function

> NOTE: DEFAULT STYLES:
    It is important to know that some elements, such as the various header elements, have default styles already applied to them. IN this case,the style for the element defaults to a bolder type.

The *font-weight* CSS property accepts the following values to specify how bold  you would like the text to be: *lighter, normal, bold,* and *bolder*. In addition, the numeric values 100 (lighter) to 900 (darker) are supported. The values increase by 100, providing nine values in total to control the weight of the text.

Italics is applied with the *font-style* property.

To achieve different fonts, use *font-family*. A good resource to find other fonts, go to WOFF(Web Open Font Format). To use these fonts in your webpage, you define a font family using the special keyword *@font-face*.

> EXAM TIP:
    Be aware that certain font types will work in some browsers but not others. It is important to declare each font type by using @font-face so that the browser has access to the one it needs.

The following code defines a @font-face for a webpage and implements it for the `<p>` elements of the page:
```
@font-face {
    font-family: "My Nicer Font";
    src: url('fonts/my_woff_font.eot');
    src: url('fonts'my_woff_font.woff');
}
p {
    font-family: 'My Nicer Font';
}
```

The *font-size* property accepts relative values that when rendered are relative to the default text size in the browser. The available values are: *xx-small, x-small, small, smaller, medium, larger, large, x-large, xx-large*.

Table 4-1 (page 240) Supported values for *text-align*: right, left, center, justify

The *text-indent* attribute accepts an integer value to indicate how much to indent.

There are two ways to control the spacing of text: *letter-spacing* or *word-spacing*.

The *hyphen* attribute allows you to control how a sentence or word wraps or breaks at the end of the line.

Table 4-2 (page 241) Values available for the hyphen attribute: none, Auto, Manual
When *auto is specified*, the browser calculates where to hyphenate the words based on its own rules os that the text does not go outside the bounds of the container.

* **Thought Experiment**
    + Altering styles: CSS provides the ability to make websites look great. In some cases, you may want to alter the styles based on user input or actions. How would you alter the styles of your page in this fashion.

    Answer:
    jQuery is the easiest way to achieve changing CSS styles dynamically. JS will do the trick as well. All the CSS properties that have been looked at are available to be changed dynamically. So for example, in the following code, the color of the button is changed to green when it is clicked:
    ```
    <html>
    <head>
    <script src="jquery-2.0.3.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
        <script
            $("document").ready(function () {
                $("#changeStyle").click(function () }
                    $(this).css("color","green");
                });
            });
        </script>
    </head>
    <body>
        <button id="changeStyle">Change Style</button>
    </body>
    </html>
    ```

* **Objective summary**
    + CSS3 provides the ability to style the appearance of text in the following ways:
        + Changing the color with the *color* property
        + Changing the text to bold with the *font-weight* property
        + Changing the text to italics with the *font-style* property
        + Changing the font type with the *font-family* property
        + changing the size fo the text with the *font-size* property
    + CSS3 provides the ability to style the alignment of text with the *text-align* property
    + CSS3 provides the ability to alter text indentation with the *text-indent* property
    + CSS3 provides the ability to alter the spacing between letters and the spacing between words with the *letter-spacing* and *word-spacing* properties.
    + CSS3 allows you to control how text hyphenates when the text needs to wrap within the boundaries of its container

* **Objective review**
    1. Which of the following CSS would not change the appearance of text?
        + B: font-weight: heavy; heavy is not a valid option for font-weight
    2. Which of the following aligns text to the full width of the available box?
        + D: Justify will align the text such that each line takes up the width of the box
    3. Which of the following is a way to configure the amount of space between words?
        + C: word-spacing will set the amount of space between words

### Objective 4.2: Style HTML box properties
The size of any element is controlled by its *height* and *width* properties. So, a *div* element with some text inside it will have a width and height that is sufficient to display the text. The width and height can be specified as a measurement in pixels (px) or centimeters (cm) or can be specified as a percentage of its parent element.

With the use of the *border* property, you can control the style, spacing, color, and width of the border.
The first thing that you need to set on the border is the style. This will essentially bring the border into existence.

> NOTE: SETTING BORDER-STYLE:
    Note that the border needs to exist before it can have any visible changes done to it. This is why in the above example, the *border-style* is set first.

> EXAM TIP:
    The *border* element supports many variants in its ability to set properties in a single line. Take some time to experiement with all the possible combinations so you will be able to read them and identify them easily on the exam.

There are also padding and margins to give space within and outside an element.

Setting the opacity (also known as transparency) of an element in CSS provides the ability to make the element effectively see through. The value used in setting the opacity is a ratio from 0 to 1.0.

Any HTML element can also contain a background image. This is achieve by specifying the *background-image* property.

Table 4-3 (page 250) Configuration options for the background image: size, repeat, clip, position-x/position-y

You can use the *repeat*, *size*, *repeat-x*, and *repeat-y* to make multiple images as a background.

There are two types of gradient effects supported. The first is a linear gradient where the color changes in a line across the object in any direction. The other gradient is a radial gradient where the color starts in the center and changes toward the outer edges.

Table 4-4 (page 252) Parameters for the *linear-gradient* function: Direction, Color stop...n

Shadow effects allow you to apply a shadow to your HTML element's box or to the text. There are two CSS3 properties to control the shadow effect: *box-shadow* and *text-shadow*. The *box-shadow* controls teh shadow effect surrounding the box of the HTML element. The *text-shadow* property controls the shadow of text.

Table 4-5 (page 252) Parameters for the *box-shadow* property: h-shadow, v-shadow, blur, spread, color, inset

The *color* property accepts values as a hex code, rgb(), or literal color. This property changes the color of the shadow.

> NOTE: UNDERSTANDING H-SHADOW AND V-SHADOW PARAMETERS:
    h-shadow and v-shadow parameters can accept negative values. To place the shadow on the left side of the box instead of the right, specify a negative value for the h-shadow. To place the shadow on top of the box instead of the bottom, specify a negative value for the v-shadow parameter.

The CSS property to apply a shadow to text is called *text-shadow*.

Table 4-6 (page 256) Text-shadow parameters: h-shadow, v-shadow, blur, color

The *clip* property allows you to specify what portion of an element is visible.

> NOTE: UNDERSTANDING THE *CLIP* PROPERTY
    The *clip* property works only on elements whose position is set as fixed or absolute.

> EXAM TIP:
    For the exam, be sure you understand that each HTML element is a box and each box begins its own new coordinate system. If you place a *div* element on the page at *50px,50px), any elements placed inside it are not placed at a coordinate starting at (50px,50px) just bc that is where the *div* element is. The child elements inside the *div* start at coordinate (0,0), which is the top left corner of the *div* itself. All child elements are positinoed relative to the container in which they are placed.

> EXAM TIP:
    The left and right properties start their measurements from the outer-most edge of the box. For the exam, keep in mind that if there are margins or padding specified, this will influence the position of the object as well.

> EXAM TIP:
    When overlapping elements using absolute positioning, CSS provides a z-index property. This allows you to specify in what order the elements should stack on the page along the z-axis (the third dimension!).

The *float* property automatically moves an element to the left or right of surrounding content. This is most commonly used to place images in line with text to force the text to wrap around the image.

* **Thought Experiment**
    + Creating a moving HTML element: Create the styles and scripts to make an HTML object move across the page. This is seen in many webpages today with banner or ticker controls that display information moving across the screen. Using what you know about setting and changing the position of an object with CSS, create a moving HTML element.

    Answer:
    The following code demonstrates how to alter an element's position using jQuery.
    ```
    <html>
    <head>
    <script src="jquery-2.0.3.min.js" type="text/javascript"></script>
        <style>
            p {
                position: fixed;
                left: 1px;
            }
        </style>
        <script>
            var pos = 1;
            $("document").ready(function() {
                setInterval(function() {
                    var newPos = (pos + 1) + "px";
                    $(#scrollMe").css("left",newPos);
                    pos += 1;
                }, 20);
            });
        </script>
    </head>
    <body>
        <p id="scrollMe">This text moves across the screen.</p>
    </body>
    </html>
    ```

* **Objective summary**
    + Every HTML element is a box and has the properties of a box such as height and width.
    + CSS3 allows you to change the size of a box by specifying a new height and width.
    + CSS3 allows you to style box properties in the following ways:
        + The *border-style* property allows you to specify a solid or dashed line for the border
        + The *border-color* property allows you to specify the color of the border
        + The *border-spacing* property allows you to specify the amount of space between adjacent elements
        + the *border-width* property allows you to specify a thickness for the border
        + Each side of the box can be styled differently.
    + CSS3 provides a way to define the padding and margin that a box should have relative to adjacent elements. This can be configured differently for each side of the box.
    + An element can be made transparent or partially transparent by setting the *opacity* property.
    + An element can contain a background image by setting its *background-image* property.
    + CSS3 provides the ability to create shadow effects by specifying the *box-shadow* property*
    + CSS3 provides the ability to clip images using the *clip* property to show only a portion of an image
    + CSS3 can be used to establish an element's position as either fixed, absolute, or relative
    + The *left* and *top* CSS properties can be used to alter an element's position

* **Objective review**
    1. Which of the following is not a valid way to alter the size of an element?
        + D: div{height:50ft; width:50ft;} ft is not a valid unit of measurement
    2. Which of the following will successfully style the border of a *div* element?
        + A: border-top: 5px dotted blue; border-right: 5px solid green; border-left: 3px dashed red; border-bottom: 10px double black; Each side will be styled differently and the syntax is correct
    3. When looking from the outside edge of an HTML element and moving to the inside edge, what order does the padding, margin, and border occur in?
        + B: margin, border, padding is the correct sequence.
    4. Which of the following statements will apply a box shadow to the right and bottom edge of a *div* element?
        + A: box-shadow: gray 5px 5px; will apply a box shadow to the right and bottom edge of a *div* element.
    5. Which of the following will place an element relative to the browser window?
        + B: Fixed positioning is the correct answer

### Objective 4.3: Create a flexible content layout
The flexbox is a CSS3 construct that provides a way to layout elements that flow.
All the elements within a flexbox are called *flexbox* items.

Table 4-7 (page 267) CSS styles available for a flexible box: flex-direction, flex-pack

> EXAM TIP:
    The flexbox is oriented based on the flex direction. The flex direction is based on the layout axis. If the layout of the flexbox is column, the layout axis is vertical. If the flexbox layout is row, the layout axis is horizontal. For the exam, this is important to understand in order to know how other properties on the flex grid will be rendered.

You can change the direction by using *row-reverse*.
The *flex* property is specified on each of the children elements to designate the amount of space each should occupy.
*flex-wrap* provides the ability to specify what the browser should do in the event that the content within the flexbox exceeds the available space of the flexbox itself.

> EXAM TIP:
    On the exam, you might see the shorthand version of what you have just done w/ the wrapping. The *flex-flow* property supports specifying the wrap style as the second parameter: *flex-flow: row wrap*

Table 4-8 (page 274) Multi-column properties: column-count, column-gap, column-rule-color, column-rule-width, column-rule, column-span, column-width, Columns

> EXAM TIP:
    Whenever you see a property with the same name prefix as with the column-rule property, you can know that there is a shorthand mechanism to specify the most common properties in one line.

> IMPORTANT: INTERNET EXPLORER VERSION REQUIREMENTS:
    At this time, the *wrap-flow* property is only implemented in IE 10+. Therefore, this element requires the -ms prefix be applied to it.

Table 4-9 (page 277) Values available for the *wrap-flow* property: auto, both, start, end, maximum, clear

> NOTE: USING SHORTHAND:
    Some great shorthand is available for specifying rows and columns in a case where you have patterns. In the example in this section, the following CSS provides the same instructions:
    #blogPage {
        display: grid;
        grid-columns: 15% 1fr 25%;
        grid-rows: (20%)[5];
        width: 90%;
        height: 95%;
        border: 1px dotted black;
        margin: auto;
    }

> NOTE: BROSWER SUPPORT FOR REGIONS:
    Regions are currently in the experimental and development phase. There is limited browser support at this time. This section highlights only the key design goals of this feature.

Layout of a webpage using regions requires two things: a content source and regions that will be the content destination.

The new CSS properties called *flow-into* and *flow-from* are used to assign the role of the HTML elements in the region layout.

> EXAM TIP:
    Since the regions feature is still experimental, the exam is not likely to cover this topic. However, this is only at the time of writing and could change at any time. Be familiar and keep checking on updates with respect to the readiness of this CSS construct in the real world.

* **Thought Experiment**
    + Combining layouts: Extend the current grid layout blog page so that the main content area uses a column layout. Each layout is very powerful on its own to serve its specific purpose. It is important though to know that you can create some very powerful layouts by combining them where it makes sense.

    Answer:
    ```
    <html>
        <head>
            <style>
                html, body {
                    height: 100%;
                    width: 100%;
                }
                #blogPage {
                    display: grid;
                    grid-columns: 15% 1fr 25%;
                    grid-rows: (20%)[5];
                    width: 90%;
                    height: 95%;
                    border: 1ps dotted black;
                    margin: auto;
                }
                    #blogPage > header {
                        grid-column: 1;
                        grid-column-span: 3;
                        grid-row: 1;
                        border: 1px dotted black;
                    }
                    #blogPage > footer {
                        grid-column: 1;
                        grid-row: 5;
                        grid-column-span: 3;
                        border: 1px dotted black;
                    }
                    #blogPage > article {
                        grid-column: 2;
                        grid-row: 2;
                        grid-row-span: 3;
                        border: 1px dotted black;
                    }
                    #blogPage > #calendar {
                        grid-column: 3;
                        grid-row: 3;
                        border: 1px dotted black;
                    }
                    #blogPage > #blogRoll {
                        grid-column: 3;
                        grid-row: 4;
                        border: 1px dotted black;
                    }
                    #blogPage > #aboutMe {
                        grid-column: 1;
                        grid-row: 2;
                        grid-row-span: 3;
                        border: 1px dotted black;
                    }
                    #blogPage > #bloghistory {
                        grid-column: 3;
                        grid-row: 2;
                        border: 1px dotted black;
                    }
                #cols {
                    width: 80%;
                    height: 100%;
                    border: 1px solid black;
                    column-count: 3;
                    column-rule-color: black;
                    column-rule-style: dashed;
                    column-rule-width: 2px;
                    column-gap: 5px;
                }
                hgroup {
                    column-span: all;
                    text-align: center;
                }
            </style>
        </head>
        <body
            <div id="blogPage">
                <header>My Blog Header</header>
                <article id="cols">
                <hgroup>
                    <h1>My Blog's Main Body</h1>
                </hgroup>
                <p>
                    Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit, sed diam nonummy nibh euismod tincidunt ut laoreet dolore magna liquam
                    ...
                </p>
                </article>
                <footer>My Blog Footer</footer>
                <aside id="calendar">A Calendar</aside>
                <aside id="blogRoll">My favorite blogs</aside>
                <aside id="aboutMe">Who am I?</aside>
                <aside id="bloghistory">My blog history</aside>
            </div>
        </body>
    </html>
    ```

* **Objective summary**
    + Flexbox allows you to layout elements in a flow-like fashion.
    + Multi-column layout allows you to separate content into a fixed number of columns, like a newspaper layout.
    + The flow of text around elements like images can be controlled using wrap-flow layouts
    + The grid layout provides the beset way to separate the layout from the content by specifying explicitly in CSS where each element should be displayed within a predefined grid

* **Objective review**
    1. Which of the following layouts is based on columns and rows?
        + C: Grid layout allows layout in rows and columns
    2. Which of the following is false about a flexbox layout?
        + D: Grid layouts can be set into rows and columns
    3. Which of the following property values for *wrap-flow* will allow the text to wrap along both sides of an element?
        + A: *both* will allow the text to wrap along both sides of an element

### Objective 4.4: Create an animated and adaptive UI
> NOTE: SEE IT FOR YOURSELF:
    Since this is a book and transitions are visual effects that involve the changing of properties gradually, screen shots do not demonstrate the functionality very well. You should try the code in your own webpages to get familiar with the outcomes of the styles and scripts.

Table 4-9 (page 290) CSS3 transition properties: transition-property, transition-duration, transition-delay

> EXAM TIP:
    When using the individual transition-* properties, you can specify only one property to transition. With the transition shorthand, you are able to specify a comma-separated list.

Table 4-10 (page 290) Values for *transition-timing-function*: ease, linear, ease-in, ease-out, ease-in-out, cubic-bezier

Table 4-11 (page 291) Three-dimensional transformations: translate, scale, rotate, matrix

Use media queries to make your webpage responsive for different resolution screens.

> NOTE: DOES IT WORK?
    The media query does not require that a smart phone or tablet be in use, only that the view port of the page is within the query parameters. To test this code, simply resize your browser window beyond the defined sizes to see the page change its layout dynamically.

If you want to disable elements, you can apply a CSS class and name it ".disableIt" and then give the script:
```
<script>
    $("document").ready(function (e) {
        $(".disableIt").attr("disabled", "disabled");
    });
</script>
```

* **Thought Experiment**
    + Combining effects: Consider combining transitions with transformations. Individually, transitions and transformations provide interesting effects to the HTML page. Consider what kind of effects can be achieved by using them together.

    Answer:
    By combining the transition with the transform, you are able to create effects that you otherwise would not be able to create. For example, if you want to create the effect of a box spinning or rotating, you can apply a *transform:rotate(360deg);* to the box. However, this happens so fast that you cannot see that the box rotated. Alternatively, by applying a transform effect with a longer duration, you actually can see the box rotate. Look at the following code, which demonstrates this effect on a series of *div* boxes:

    ```
    <html>
    <head>
        <style>
            div {
                margin: 10px 10px 10px 10px;
                height: 50px;
                width: 50px;
                background-color: red;
                transition: transform 3s;
            }
            div:hover {
                transform: rotate(360deg);
            }
        </style>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div></div>
        <div></div>
        <div></div>
        <div></div>
        <div></div>
        <div></div>
    </body>
    </html>
    ```

* **Objective summary**
    + HTML elements can be manipulated with transitions using the *transition-property, transition-duration*, and *transition-delay* CSS properties.
    + Elements can be manipulated in 2-D and 3-D space with effects such as *translate, scale, rotate, and matrix*
    + Media queries allows you to have a dynamic, responsive user interface based on the view port size and type.
    + The *visibility* property hides a control but keeps its position in the overall layout. Using the *display* property to hide a control removes it from the layout as well.

* **Objective Review**
    1. Which of the following statements will hide an element but keep its space in the overall flow?
        + A: display: none; will hide an element but keep its space in the overall flow
    2. Media queries are best suited for what purpose?
        + B: Creating a responsive user interface based on the screen size of the view port
    3. Which of the following *transition-timing-function* properties makes the transition start slow, speed up, then end slow?
        + A: ease will start slow, speed up and end slow. This is also the default value.

### Objective 4.5: Find elements by using CSS selectors and jQuery
Table 4-12 (page 301) Attribute selector capabilities: =, ~=, ^=, $=, *=

Most common pseudo-classes:
+ aadsf:link
+ :visited
+ :hover
+ :checked
```
input[type="checkbox"]:checked {
    display: none;
}
```
+ :required
```
input:required {
    border: 2px solid red;
}
```
+ :enabled
```
input:enabled {
    background-color: white;
}
```
+ :disabled
```
input:disabled {
    background: blue;
}
```
+ :first-child
```
p:first-child {
    color:green;
}
```
+ :first-letter
```
p::first-letter {
    font-size: xx-large;
}
```
+ :before
```
p::before {
    content: '**';
}
```
+ :after
```
p::after {
    content: '**';
}
```
+ :first-line
```
p::first-line {
    color:green;
    font-size: x-large;
}
```

* **Thought Experiment**
    + Using jQuery with pseudo-classes: consider how you can use jQuery to select elements using pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements. Using only jQuery, apply CSS styles to the first paragraph of any group of paragraphs elements.

    Answer:
    What is interesting about this thought experiment is recognizing that not all pseudo-class or pseudo-element selectors are supported by jQuery. For example, inserting content via pseudo selectors does not work in this way. However, some things can be done via jQuery. In this example, the following code shows how the pseudo-element selector works in a jQuery selector:
    ```
    <script>
        $("document).ready(function () {
            $("p:first-child").css("color","green");
        });
    </script>
    ```

* **Objective summary**
    + Pseudo-elements and pseudo-classes provide an advanced mechanism for searching HTML elements in a page and applying styles.
    + Using pseudo-elemenst and pseudo-classes you can change the style of an element based on user actions.
    + Using pseudo-elements and pseudo-classes you can gain granular control over parts of the text in a text block.

* **Objective review**
    1. Which one of the following is a CSS class selector?
        + A: .code is a CSS class selector
    2. Which one of the following is an attribute selector?
        + C: input[required] is an attribute selector
    3. Which of the following statements would alter the style of an anchor element when the mouse is moved over it?
        + D: a:hover will change the style when the user moves the mouse over the link

### Objective 4.6: Structure a CSS file by using CSS selectors
Referencing elements:
+ p{...}
+ article{...}
+ div{...}
+ .bold{...}
+ .largeTitle{...}
+ p.largeTitle{...}
+ #nameBox{...}
+ p,H1,H2 {...}

You can override inheritance using !important but it's not recommended.

* **Thought Experiment**
    + Combining pseudo-element selectors: Consider how you can get very specific styles applied to your HTML elements through the combination of pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements. For example, how would you change the appearance of the first letter of the first paragraph of each group of paragraphs on the page but only when the user hovers over it? Experiment with other combinations of selectors to achieve specific effects.

    Answer:
    When you want to achieve specific formatting on complex webpages, you need to account for the hierarchy of your page and ensure that you understand how the inheritance is going to impact the nested HTML elements' styles. The more specific your selectors, the more CSS you need to write but have more control. The following code will demonstrate a specific selector that will alter only the first character of the first paragraph when a user hovers over it:
    ```
    p:first-child:hover:first-letter {
        font-size: xx-large;
    }
    ```
    This code does not seem like much, but it is very specific. It will override default inheritance and any other styles defined for that same element. Consider the following CSS:
    ```
    p:first-child:first-letter {
        font-size: xx-small;
    }
    p:first-child:hover:first-letter {
        font-size: xx-large;
    }
    ```
    The first selector will default the size of the first letter to xx-small but the hover class will override this. This is where it may be desirable to use the *!important* keyword to force the xx-small font. IN this example, the two styles purely conflict. You would need to choose one over the other.

* **Objective summary**
    + Referencing elements correctly takes careful consideration of how you will structure your CSS and your HTML elements.
    + Selectors can be nested and joined together to get more specific.
    + HTML elements inherit styles automatically from their parent elements
    + CSS is processed from the top down, so that last style processed wins if it conflicts with other style declarations
    + *!important* can be used to ensure that the desired style is rendered when there is a competing CSS declaration.

* **Objective review**
    + The review questions use the following HTML listing:
    ```
    <html>
    <body>
        <div>
            <hgrouop
                <h1></h1>
                <h2></h2>
            </hgroup>
        </div>
        <div>
            <section>
                <article>
                    <h1></h1>
                    <p></p>
                    <p></p>
                </article>
                <article>
                    <h1></h1>
                    <p></p>
                    <aside></aside>
                    <p></p>
                </article>
            </section>
        </div>
        <div>
            <footer>
                <p></p>
                <p></p>
            </footer>
        </div>
    </body>
    </html>
    ```
    1. Referencing the HTML listing, how would you style only the first paragraph inside the footer element to have a smaller font size?
        + A:
            ```
            footer p:first-child {
                font-size: x-small;
            }
            ```
    2. Referencing the HTML listing, how would you apply a new font to all the H1 elements? In addition, the `<h1>` elements in an article should be italic.
        + B:
            ```
            h1 {
                font-family: 'Courier New';
            }
            article h1 {
                font-style:italic;
            }
            ```
    3. Referencing the preceding HTML listing, write the CSS code to apply a border to the aside element that is 100 pixels high and 50 pixels wide. In addition, provide a shadow effect and slightly skew the element to the right 5 degrees.

    Answer:
    ```
    aside {
        height:100px;
        width:50px;
        border: 2px solid black;
        transform: skew(-5deg);
        box-shadow: 5px 5px;
    }
    ```