---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

**Notes on [Team Collaboration](https://code.tutsplus.com/articles/team-collaboration-with-github--net-29876)**

1. **Adding Team Members:** Organization & Collaborators
* The leader of an Organization can give certain permissions(Pull only, Push and Pull, and Push, Pull & Administrative) to certain people.
* Collaborators have both Read + Write access
2. **Pull Requests:** Sending & Merging
* Pull requests are basically forking/copying a repo, working on your own version of the repo on your own, and then having an opportunity of merging it with master branch later on. 
3. **Bug Tracking:** Github Issues
* Cool feature: Auto-close when committing messages correlating to the issues it fixes.
* Labels give color coordination for certain kinds of issues. 
* Milestones can give good timeline of deadlines and what big releases you're working towards. 
* There's a search functionality to find certain issues.
4. **Analytics:** Graphs & Network
* Graphs can provide details of who the contributors are, commit activity, code frequency, and a punchcard. 
5. **Project Management:** Trello & Pivotal Tracker
* Trello, Pivotal Tracker, Asana, and Basecamp are all tools to help wtih managing tasks, but reading what each can do, it seems like Pivoal Trackers seems the one that'd probably like to use. Still need to try out all of them.
6. **Continuous Integration:** Travis CI
7. **Code Review:** Line Commenting & URL Queries
8. **Documenting:** Wiki & Hubot (Huboard)

**Notes on [Pair Programming](http://www2.york.psu.edu/~sg3/cmpbd205/assign/week01/ACMarticlePairProgramming.pdf)**
* Share everything.
* Play fair. 
	* let each person drive. 
* Don't hit your partner. 
	* stay focused on task, especially if you're not driving.
* Put things back where they belong. 
* Clean up your mess.
* Don't take things too seriously.
* Say you're sorry when you hurt somebody while moving furniture. 
	* find the best way to work as partners, especially having the keyboard and mouse accessible to both partners. 
* Wash your hands of skepticism before you start. 
	* have someone at least buy into that pair programming is the best.
* Flush.
* Warm cookies and cold milk are good for you.
* Live a balanced life 
	* learn some and think some and draw and paint and sing and dance and play and work every day some.
* Take a break from working together every afternoon.
* When you go out into the world, watch out for traffic, and hold hands and stick together.
* Be aware of the power of two brains.

**Notes on [Agile Development](http://www.jamesshore.com/Agile-Book/pair_programming.html)**

Seems like the reoccuring theme for both this article and the Pair Programming paper is that there is a lot of evidence that pair programming is so much better than solo programming.
* Tip for navigators: Keep an index card in front of you. Rather than interrupting the driver when thinking of an issue, write it down and wait for a break in the action to bring them up. At the end of the pairing session, tear the card and throw it away.
* Pairing Tips:
	* Pair on everything you'll need to maintain.
	* Allow pairs to form fluidly rather than assigning partners.
	* Switch partners when you need a fresh perspective. 
	* Avoid pairing with the same person for more than a day at a time.
	* Sit comfortable, side-by-side.
	* Produce code through conversation. Collaborate, don't critique.
	* Switch driver and navigator roles frequently.

**Notes on Javascript the Good Parts:**

While reading chapter 4, there were some topics that kind of confused me. I wasn't able to fully understand what the author was trying to get across, even after reading it multiple times. These are the topics I need to find alternative sources for, maybe from like youtube or other articles on tutorials or examples taking me through them. 
Here are the topics:
* Prototypes
* The Constructor Invocation Pattern
* Augmenting Types
* Callbacks
* Module
* Curry

**Notes on Extreme Programming:**

Iteration Planning:
* The Planning Meeting
	1. The customer presents user stories.
	2. The team brainstorms engineering tasks.
	3. The programmer signs up for and estimates the work.

Code Quality:
1. Run all the tests
2. Express every idea that we need to express
3. Say everything once and only once
4. Have the minumum number of classes and methods consistent with the above

Unit Testing:
A free software for testing framework is called SUnit, for Smalltalk. There are various other types of tools as well like JUnit tool for Java, CppUnit, PerlUnit, PyUnit for Python, VBUnit for Visual Basic, and many more for other languages. These frameworks are available on [Ron Jeffries' website](http://ronjeffries.com/)

Another tool suggeseted from the author is [JUnit](http://junit.org/junit4/)

When developing a new story, write little tests first, and always express your intentions, not algorithms, in the code that you write. 

**What did I do this past week?**

I finished up my Collatz project and I had to catch up on my readings. Because of the Collatz project, I fell behind for the week, but now I'm kind of caught up now. 

**What's in my way?**

I have to finish all my readings for this week soon for SWE and start/finish my intro to security coding assignment. 

**What will I do next week?**

Next week, I'll just keep studying and code so I can finish strong this semester, since it shall be my last. 

**TIP-OF-THE-WEEK**

This is one of the websites I use to learn some intro stuff to new languages. Some of the stuff is outdated and some are current. I find it to be a good resource to just dabble in some new things. [TheNewBoston](https://thenewboston.com/)