---
layout: post
title: Week 9
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<!--more-->

**Notes on [Getters and Setters](http://www.javaworld.com/article/2073723/core-java/why-getter-and-setter-methods-are-evil.html)**

* Data abstraction: A dundamental precept of OO systems is that an object should not expose any of its implementation details. 
* Draw thyself: One ramification of full field encapsulation is in UI construction. 
* Javabeans: Accessors were created solely as a way to tag certain properties so a UI-builder program or equivalent could identify them.
* A design strategy: The OO design process centers on use cases: a user performs standalone tasks that have some useful outcome. 
* Summing up: Shouldn't use accessor methods (getters and setters) unless absolutely necessary bc these methods expose info about how a class is implemented and as a consequence make your code harder to maintain. 

**Notes on [More on Getters and Setters](http://www.javaworld.com/article/2072302/core-java/more-on-getters-and-setters.html)**

* The problem: most programmers have no difficulty grasping this concept at the business-logic level (though it can take some effort to consistently think that way). Problems start to emerge, however, when the UI enters the picture. 
* Build a solution: the problem's solution is to separate the UI code from the core business object by putting it into separate class of objects. That is, you should split off some functionality that could be in the object into a separate object entirely.

1. Employee: The Builder Context
2. Exporting to a client-side UI
3. A JComponent-based Builder
4. Building an HTML representation
5. Builder-based initialization in a servlet
6. Builder-based client-side initialization

* Summing up: A good OO system hides implementation as thoroughly as possible. Dubious programming idioms like get/set methods seriously damage the maintainability of the system.

**Refactoring: Ch. 3-6**

**Chapter 3: Bad Smells in Code**
* Duplicated Code: Number one in the stink parade is duplicated code (lol). If you see the same code structure in more than one place, you can be sure that your program will be better if you find a way to unify them.
* Long Method: The object programs that live best and longest are those with short methods. Programmers new to objects foten feel that no computation ever takes place, that object programs are endless sequences of delegation.
* Large Class: When a class is trying to do too much, it often shows up as too many instance variables. When a class has too many instance variables, duplicated code cannot be far behind.
* Long Parameter List: if you don't have something you need, you can always ask another object to get it for you. Thus with objects you don't pass in everything the method needs; instead you pass enough so that the method can get to everything it needs.
* Divergent Change: We structure our software to make change easier; after all, software is meant to be soft. When we make a change we want to be able to jump to a single clear point in the system and make the change. Divergent change occurs when one class is commonly changed in different ways for different reasons. 
* Shotgun Surgery: Similar to divergent change but is the opposite. You whiff this when every time you make a kind of change, you have to make a lot of little changes to a lot of different classes. 
* Feature Envy: The whole point of objects is that they are a technique to package data with the pocesses used on that data. A classic smell is a method that seems more interested in a class other than the one it actually is in. The most common focus of the envy is the data. 
* Data Clumps: Data items tend to be like children; they enjoy hanging around in groups together. Bunches of data that hang around together really ought to be made into their own object. 
* Primitive Obsession: Most programming environments have two kinds of data. Record types allow you to structure data into meaningful groups. Primitive types are your building blocks. 
* Switch Statements: One of the most obvious symptoms of object-oriented code is its comparative lack of switch (or case) statements.Most times you see a switch statement you should consider polymorphism. You want the method or class that hosts the type code value. 
* Parallel Inheritance Hierarchies: special case of shotgun surgery. In this case, every time you make a subclass of one class, you also have to make a subclass of another. 
* Lazy Class: Each class you create costs money to maintain and understand. A class that isn't doing enough to pay for itself should be eliminated. 
* Speculative Generality: "Oh, I think we need the ability to do this kind of thing someday" and thus want all sorts of hooks and special cases to handle things that aren't required. The result often is harder to understand and maintain.
* Temporary Field: Sometimes you see an object in which an instance variable is set only in certain circumstances. Such code is difficult to understand, because you expect an object to need all of its variables. Trying to understand why a variable is there when it doesn't seem to be used can be unfathomable to understand. 
* Message Chains: You see message chains when a client asks one object for another object, which the client then asks for yet another object, which the client then asks for yet another another object, and so on. You may see these as a long line of getThis methods, or as a sequence of temps.
* Middle Man: One of the prime feaatures of objects is encapsulation - hiding internal details from the rest of the world. Encapsulation often comes with delegation. you ask a director whether she is free for a meeting; she delegates the message to her diary and gives you an answer. 
* Inappropriate Intimacy: Sometimes classes become far too intimate and spend too much time delving in each other's private parts. We may not be prudes when it comes to people, but we think our classes should follow strict, puritan rules. 
* Alternative Classes with Different Interfaces: Use Rename Method on any methods that do the same thing but have different signatures for what they do. Often this doesn't go far enough. In these cases the classes aren't yet doing enough. 
* Incomplete Library Class: Reuse is often touted as the purpose of objects. We think reuse is overrated (we just use). However, we can't deny that much of our programming skill is based on library classes so that nobody can tell whether we've forgotten our sort algorithms.
* Data Class: These are classes that have fields, getting and setting methods for the fields, and nothing else. Such classes are dumb data holders and are almost certainly being manipulated in far too much detail by other classes. In early stages these class may have public fields.
* Refused Bequest: Subclasses get to inherit the methods and data of their parents. But what if they don't want or need what they are given? They are given all these great gifts and pick just a few to play with. 
* Comments: Don't worry, we aren't saying that people shouldn't write comments. In our olfactory analogy, comments aren't a bad smell; indeed they are a sweet smell. The reason we mention comments here is that comments often are used as a deodorant. It's surprising how often you look at thickly commented code and notice that the comments are there because the code is bad. 

**Chapter 4: Building Tests**
* The Value of Self-testing Code:  If you look at how most programmers pend their time, you'll find that writing code actually is quite a small fraction. Some time is spent figuring out what ought to be going on, some time is spent designing, but most time is spend debugging. I'm sure every reader can remember long hours of debugging, often long into the night. Every programmer can tell a story of a bug that took a whole day (or more) to find. 
* Make sure all tests are fully automatic and that they check their own results. 
* A suite of tests is a powerful bug detector that decapitates the time it takes to find bugs. 
* The JUnit Testing Framework: The testing framework that the author uses is JUnit, an oopen-source testing framework developed by Erich Gamma and Kent Beck [JUnit]. The framework is very simple, yet it allows you to do all the key things you need for testing. 
* Run you rtests frequently. Localize tests whenever you compile - every test at least every day. 
* When you get a bug report, start by writing a unit teset that exposes the bug. 
* Adding More Tests: Now we should continues adding more tests. The style I follow is to look at all the things the class should do and test each one of them for any conditions that might cause the class to fail. This is not the same as "test every public method," which some programmers advocate. Testing should be risk driven; remember, you are trying to find bugs now or in the future. 
* It is better to write and run incomplete tests than not to run complete tests.
* Think of the boundary conditions under which things might go wrong and concentrate your tests there. 
* Don't forget to test that exceptions are raised when things are expected to go wrong. 
* Don't let the fear that testing can't catch all bugs stop you from writing the tests that will catch most bugs. 

**Chapter 5: Toward a Catalog of Refactorings**
* Format of the Refactorings: Each refactoring has five parts, as follows: 
	* Begin with a **name**. The name is important to building a vocabulary of refactorings. This is the name used elsewhere in the book.
	* Follow the name with a short **summary** of the situation in which you need the refactoring and a summary of what the refactoring does. This helps you find a refactoring more quickly.
	* The **motivation** describes why the refactoring should be done and describes circumstances in which it shouldn't be done.
	* The **mechanics** are a concise, step-by-step description of how to carry out the refactoring. 
	* The **examples** show a very simple use of the refactoring to illustrate how it works.

* Finding References: Many of the refactorings call for you to find all references to a method, a field, or a class. When you do this, enlist the computer to help you. By using the computer you reduce your chances of missing a reference and can usually do the search much more quickly than you would if you were simply to eyeball the code. 
* How Mature are these Refactorings?: Any technical author has the problem of deciding when to publish. The earlier you publish, the quicker people can take advantage of the ideas. However, people are always learning. If you publish half-baked ideas too early, the ideas can be incomplete and even lead to problems for those who try to use them. Take small steps and test often. 

**Chapter 6: Composing Methods**
* Extract method: 
	* Motivation: One of the most common refactorings. Look at a method that is too long or look at code that needs a comment to understand its purpose. Then turn that fragment of code into its own method. 
	* Mechanics: Create a new method, name it after the intention of the method (name it by what it does, not by how it does it).
	* Copy the extracted code from the source method into the new target method. 
	* Scan the extracted code for references to any variables that are local in scope to the source method. These are local variables and params to the method. 
	* See whether any temp variables are used only within this extracted code. If so, declare them in the tgt method as temp vars. 
	* Look to see whether any of these local-scope vars are modified by the extracted code. 
	* Pass into the tgt method as parameters local-scope vars that are read from the extracted code. 
	* Compile when you have dealt with all the locally-scoped vars. 
	* Replace the extracted code in the source method w/ a call to the tgt method. 
	* Compile and test.

* Inline Method: 
	* Motivation: A theme of this book is to use short methods named to show their intention, bc these mthods lead to clearer and easier to read code. But sometimes you do come across a method in which the body is as clear as the name. 
	* Mechanics:
		* Check that the method is not polymorphic.
		* Find all calls to the method. 
		* Replace each call with the method body.
		* Compile and test.
		* Remove the method definition. 

* Inline Temp:
	* Motivation: Most of the time Inline Temp is used as part of Replace temp w/ Query, so the real motivation is there. The only time Inline Temp is used on its own is when you find a temp that is assigned the value of a method call.
	* Mechanics: 
		* Check that the right hand side of the assignment is free of side-effects.
		* Declare the temp as final if it isn't already, and compile.
		* Find all references to the temp and replace them w/ the right-hand side of the assignment.
		* Compile and teset after each change. 
		* Remove the declaration and the assignment of the temp. 
		* Compile and test. 

* Replace Temp w/ Query: 
	* Motivation: The problem w/ temps is that they are temporary and local. Bc they can be seen only in the context of the method in which they are used, temps tend to encourage longer methods, bc that's the only way you can reach the temp. By replacing the temp w/ a query method, any method in the class can get at the information. That helps a lot in coming up w/ cleaner code for the class. 
	* Mechanics: 
		* Look for a temp var that is assigned to once.
		* Declasre the temp as final.
		* Compile. 
		* Extract the right-hand side of the assignment into a method. 
		* Compile and test
		* Inline Temp on the temp

* Introduce Explaining Variable:
	* Motivation: Expressions can become very complex and hard to read. In such situations temp vars can be helpful to break down the expression into something more manageable. 
	* Mechanics:
		* Declare a final temp var, and set it to the result of part of the complex expression.
		* Replace the result part of the expression w/ the value of the temp.
		* Compile and test. 
		* Repeat for the other parts of the expression. 

* Split Temporary Variable:
	* Motivation: Temp vars are made for various uses. Some of these uses naturally lead to the temp's being assigned to several times. 
	* Mechanics:
		* Change the name of a temp at its declaration and its first assignemtn. 
		* Declare the new temp as final.
		* Change all references of the temp up to its second assignment.
		* Declare the temp at its second assignment.
		* Compile and test.
		* Repeat in stages, each stage renaming at the declaration, and changing references until the next assignment.

* Remove Assignments to Parameters:
	* Motivation: If passing an object named foo, in the parameter, assigning to the paremeter means to change foo to refer to a different object. 
	* Mechanics: 
		* Create a temp var for the parameter.
		* Replace all references to the parameter, made after the assignment, to the temp var.
		* Change the assignment to assign to the temp var.
		* Compile and test. 

* Pass by Value in Java: Use of pass by value often is a source of confustion in Java. Java strictly uses pass by value in all places. 

* Replace Method with Method Object:
	* Motivation: By extracting pieces out of a large method, you make things much more comprehensible. 
	* Mechanics: 
		* Create a new class, name it after the method. 
		* Give the new class a final field for the object that hosted the original method (the source object) and a field for each temp var and each parameter in the method. 
		* Give the new class a constructor that takes the source object and each parameter. 
		* Give the new class a method name "compute."
		* Copy the body of the original method into compute. Use the source object field for any invocations of methods on the original object.
		* Compile.
		* Replace the old method w/ one that creates the new object and calls compute. 
		* Bc all the local vars are now fields, you can freely decompose the method w/o having to pass any parameters.

* Substitute Algorithm: 
	* Motivation: If you find a clearer way to do something, you should replace the complicated way with clearer way. Refactoring can break down something commmplex into simpler pieces, but sometimes you just reach the point at which you have to remove the whole alg and replace it w/ something simpler. 
	* Mechanics: Prepare your alternative algorithm. Get it so that it compiles.
	* Run the new alg against your tests. If the results are the same, you're finished. 
	* If the results aren't the same, use the old algorithm for comparison in testing and debugging. 

**What did I do this past week?**
Throughout the past week, I worked a lot on my security project along with the front-end responsibilities with one of my group partners, Ben. We implemented pagination and a [smart table](http://lorenzofox3.github.io/smart-table-website/). Also, we learned a lot of regular expressions in class. I was never good at regular expressions because the symbols confused me a lot. However, I was picked on in class to explain one of the harder problems about regex, and it made it clearer to me how it works. I was glad I was picked to workout the problem that I did.  

**What's in my way?**
What's in my way this week is my weekly projects and homeworks that always bombard me. Also, I'm still holding onto my grit in finding a full-time job. 

**What will I do next week?**
I will constantly still apply to full-time jobs on my spare time and practice some interview problems. I will also finalize the rest of responsibilities for the front-end part of our SWE group. I have also been meaning to redesign my blog. So, I might actually do that.

**TIP-OF-THE-WEEK**
There is a show on HBO, also available on Amazon, called [Silicon Valley](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Silicon_Valley_(TV_series)). I will say that it's very entertaining for engineers. It is somewhat relatable as well as good ol' parody of what Silicon Valley is like. 
Because of this show, I've been interested in learning on how to design my own UI/UX. So, I found this blog and plan to follow some tips on it to design my own UI with this blog, [7 Rules for Creating Gorgeous UI](https://medium.com/@erikdkennedy/7-rules-for-creating-gorgeous-ui-part-1-559d4e805cda).