---
layout: post
title: Week 2
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<!--more-->

## This Weekend (1/21-1/22)

Notes on [College Advice](https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2005/01/02/advice-for-computer-science-college-students/)

1. **Learn how to write before graduating:** Continuously write in a weblog/journal and take writing intensive classes. Write every day. 
2. **Learn C before graduating:** learning C is like the backbone to all languages - not knowing C is like "a medical doctor who doesn't know basic anatomy"
3. **Learn microeconomics before graduating:** knowing why we program in the sense of a business perspective gives us more of an understanding why we need to program in a certain way for the business. This is useful for most companies we plan to work for. 
4. **Don’t blow off non-CS classes just because they’re boring:** getting A's in very boring classes never seemed so triumphant like how Joel put it. If you can get an A in a very monotonous class, you can do anything. 
5. **Take programming-intensive courses:** now that I think about it, most of my computer science classes weren't really programming intensive. It makes more sense that there is a difference in computer science and software development. 
6. **Stop worrying about all the jobs going to India:** to be honest, I didn't know people worried about programming jobs going to India. I am for sure counting my blessings that I really do love programming.
7. **No matter what you do, get a good summer internship:** thankfully I was able to get one summer internship that is programming intensive in a startup. 
8. **Seek professional help for that self-esteem thing.**

Notes on [Collegiate Happiness](http://www.nytimes.com/2001/04/08/education/books-the-harvard-guide-to-happiness.html)

1. **Meet the faculty:** I was pretty good at meeting faculty when I was a freshman, but that kind of died down when I got more busy with extracurricular activities. 
2. **Take a mix of courses:** So far, 2 of my all-time recommended classes that does not pertain to my major is taking Architecture and Society (ARC 308) with Larry Speck and Intro to Astronomy with Don Winget. They are both one of the best professors I have taken and know SO MUCH of their field and what they talk about. Not to mention how much passion they have teaching intro classes to get newcomers to experience their love for their field. They opened my mind to astronomy and architecture. 
3. **Study in Groups:** I agree that studying in groups helps a lot when trying to understand the material. I personally found that having a partner helps me learn best. If not a partner, a group of 3-4 people including me is ideal. 
4. **Write. Write. Write:** I see a trend that writing frequently should be my daily activity. If a a graduate of Yale and Harvard's hired research team is telling me to write daily, I shall obediently and happily obey. 
5. **Speak Another Language:** It was thanks to one of my friends for telling me to try to learn Chinese in UT that made me fall in love with learning so many foreign languages. I'm already conversational in Korean and fluent in English, but taking Chinese actually helped me understand the grammar structure of English and Korean even more. I am currently taking Japanese and on 1/28/2017, I shall be taking my first Vietnamese class. After I graduate, I plan to continue to learn different languages to communicate with different groups of people and immerse myself into the different cultures. 
6. **Consider Time:** I truly always consider my time to be productive as much as possible and also leave some time in to have fun. I feel like I have a good grasp of how to manage my time after years of practice. 
7. **Hold the Drum:** I've been playing the flute for more than 10 years and made/played a lot of music as well. I can testify that having something else to take your mind of difficult, technical problems will ease your mind. It always calms my mind to do arts and crafts but also keep my mind engage. My mind is just engaged in a different way. 

Notes on [Git Guide](http://rogerdudler.github.io/git-guide/)

* Not really anything to take note of besides just remembering all the usefulness of git commands. I kind of want to try out Source Tree. 

**Javascript: The Good Parts**

The || operator can be used to fill in default values.
Objects are passed around by reference. 
THEY ARE NEVER COPIED.
Typeof and hasOwnProperty.
for in statement is possibly unordered, but for statement will be in the same order of the object defined.
Delete can reveal the prototype linkage (the previously set var).
Best practice to use only one declaration as a global variable.

**Extreme Programming**

* The Circle of Life: Define, estimate, choose, build, and learn.

**What did I do this past week?**
This past week I did more on the Collatz project and reviewed more on the readings for SWE. 

**What's in my way?**

I need to manage my time wiser and prioritize the Collatz project over most of my other homework in my other classes. So far, I haven't been able to work on it as much as I would like to on it. 

**What will I do next week?**

I will dedicate most of my time on the Collatz project and hopefully finish it early. As well as review more on the reading assignments before each class so it can be more refreshed in my mind than just reading all my assignments during the weekend and not touching up what I read. 

**TIP-OF-THE-WEEK**

[Varvy SEO tool](https://varvy.com/)
This tool gives you an overview of the status of your website in a sense of security, efficiency, and if your website is well-formatted. 