---
layout: post
title: Week 8
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<!--more-->

**Notes on [Stability](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/fares/papers/Stability.pdf)**

* The classic definition of the word stability is: "Not easily moved."

* Classes that are heavily depned upon are "responsible". Responsible classes tend to be stable because any change has a large impact. 

* The most stable classes of all, are classes that are both Independent and Responsible. Such classes have no reason to change, and lots of reasons not to change. 

* The Stable Dependencies Principle (SDP)
> The dependencies between packages in a design should be in the direction of the stability of the packages. A package should only depend upon packages that are more stable that it is. 

* The Stable Abstractions Principle (SAP)
> Packages that are maximally stable should be maximally abstract. INstable packages should be concrete. The abstraction of a package should be in proportion to its stability. 

* A metric is not a god; it is meerely a measurement against an arbitrary standard. 

**Notes on [Why Extends is Evil](http://www.javaworld.com/article/2073649/core-java/why-extends-is-evil.html)**

* The first problem is that explicit use of concrete class names locks you into specific implementations, making down-the-line changes unnecessarily difficult. 

* If you override everything, the base class should really be an interface, not a class. There's no point in implementation inheritance if you don't use any of the inherited methods. 

**Refactoring: Ch. 1-2**

**Chapter 1: Refactoring, a First Example**
* First step in refactoring: mostly always the same and it is building a solid set of tests for that section of code. 
* Decomposing and redistributing the statement method. When there's a long method, decompose the method and redistribute it. 
* Refactoring changes the programs in small steps. If you make a mistake, it is easy to find the bug. 
* Any fool can write code that a computer can understand. Good programmers write code that humans can understand. 
* It is a bad idea to do a switch based on an attribute of another object. Replacing the conditional logic with Polymorphism. 
	* Use Inheritance 

**Chapter 2: Principles in Refactoring**
* Defining Refactoring: 
	* Refactoring (noun): A change made to the internal structure of software to make it easier to understand and cheaper to modify w/o changing its observable behavior. 
	* Refactoring (verb): To restructure software by applying a series of refactoring w/o changing its observable behavior. 
* Two hats: Two distict activities:
	* adding function: Shouldn't change existing code, just adding new capabilities. Add tests. 
	* refactoring: make a point of not adding function; only restructure the code. Don't add tests. 
* Refactoring improves the Design of Software
* Refactoring Makes Software Easier to UNderstand
* Refactoring Helps You Find Bugs
* Refactoring Helps You Program Faster
* Rule of Three. The first time you do something, you just do it. The second time you do something similar, you wince at the duplication, but you do the duplicate thing anyway. The third time you do something similar, you refactor. 
	* Three strikes and you refactor. 
* Refactor when you add function
* Refactor when you need to fix a bug
* Refactor as you do a code review
* Don't publish interfaces prematurely. Modify your code ownership policies to smooth refactoring. 
* When shouldn't you refactor?
	* The principle example is when you should rewrite from scratch instead. 

**What did I do this past week?**

I worked on a lot of frontend development for our third project in SWE with one of my group members, Ben. Our group was able to meet together for a short amount of time frequently to get a lot of the logistics out of the way. Ben and I worked hard and efficiently to get our frontend looking very nice and fluid. Our group was able to turn in our project on Thursday morning thanks to Prof. Fraij giving us time at the end of class to just get together and work on our project for a little bit. It was extremely helpful.

**What's in my way?**

This week is going to be heavily focused on both my security project and helping the backend of our group with the database for SWE. I have to get on top of the projects for both because I do not think I will have a lot of time working on the security project. 

**What will I do next week?**

I hope to work effectively on all my projects and apply for more full-time jobs in Austin. Unfortunately, I haven't had a productive weekend to be ahead of all my classes this week, so I hope to be ahead tomorrow. 

**TIP-OF-THE-WEEK**

[SlickDeals](https://slickdeals.net/) has a good, up-to-date deals on tech gear. I can usually get an amazing deal on portable chargers, raspberry pies, and etc. I've seen a lot of laptops, ipads, monitors for sale on here. 
