---
layout: post
title: Exam Ref 70-480 | Chapter 3
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<!--more-->
### Access and secure data
*Static* data is written directly into the HTML markup, not altered or loaded by code such as JS.
*Dynamic* data can change.

### Objective 3.1: Validate user input by using HTML5 elements
> NOTE: INPUT CONTROLS
    The HTML5 specification defines many more input controls than are explained in this book. This book focuses specifically on the controls now supported by IE, followed by smaller examples to demonstrate some of the other controls as supported by other browsers such as Google Chrome.

THe `<input>` element in HTML denotes input controls. This element contains a *type* attribute that speccifies the type of input element to render. The exceptions to the `<input type=">` rule are the `<textarea>` and `<button>` elements, which have their own element support.

Table 3-1 (page 193) HTML5 input elements: color*, date*, datetime*, month*, week*, time*, number*, Range, tel*, url, Radio', Checkbox', Password', Button', Reset', Submit'

*Not supported currently by IE
'Not new in HTML5

A *text* box provides a single-line text entry, whereas a *textare* allows for a multiline data entry. The *rows* and *cols* attributes define the viewable size of the text area. Other attributes that help with controlling how much information is entered into the text fields is the *maxlength* attribute.
`<input type="text" id="firstNameText" maxlength="50"/>`
Users can't enter any more than 50 chars into the text field with the *maxlength* set to a value of 50.

The `<input>` type of *url* displays a text box similar to what the `<input>` type of *text* provides. However, it validates that the text in the box matches the format of a valid URL.

> EXAM TIP:
    You can validate data in many ways. Even more options become available in HTML5, such as the *url* input type. Also availalbe are the *pattern* attribute and the use of regular expressions in JS. Both of these are discussed later in this chapter.

Instead of *http://www.contoso.com* and require more flexibility and want to accept partially entered URL info, such as *costoso.com*, don't use the *url* input box. A regular *text* input with a *pattern* specified would be more appropriate.

The *password* input control is the standard method of prompting users for sensitive info. As you type your password, each char is replaced with a glyph so that any onlookers can't see your password.

> EXAM TIP:
    You can't specify default text in a *password* box or write to it via JS. This is a security safeguard to help ensure that safety of passwords. However, the browsers provide a mechanism to store a password should a user choose to have the password remember by the browser.

You can use the *email* input type to ensure that the format of the text entered into the text box matches that of a valid email address.

> EXAM TIP:
    Validation of the *email* input type confirms only that the information entered matches the expected format of a valid email address. It in no way verifies that the email address itself is a valid mailbox that can receive messages.

An additional attribute available on the check box is the *checked* attribute. `<input type="checkbox" id="chkBrown" checked="checked"/>Brown`

Notice that as with all HTML elements, each *radio* input type needs a unique *id*. However, the *name* attribute ties all the radio buttons together. With the same name specified for each *radio* type, the browser knows that they are part of a group and that only one radio button of the group can be selected.

Using the *range* input type enables users to sepcify a value within a predefined range by using a slider bar.
`<input type="range" min="1" max="25" value="20"/>`
If you omit the *value* attribute, the range defaults to the minimum value.

The `<input>` element supports three types of button controls: *submit, reset, and button*.

> EXAM TIP:
    Anything can be a "button." Bc most DOM elements have a *click* event or at least a *mousedown* and *mouseup* event, the concept of clicking can be captured and custom actions processed. This can inherently turn any part of the DOM into a "button".

The *submit* input type tells the HTML form to post its info to the server (or, in some cases, to another site or webpage). The *reset* type automatically clears all form elements to their default values. The *button* type provides a generic button with no predefined functionality.

If you want to present info to users in elements such as text boxes but don't want them to be able to alter this data, use the *readonly* attribute.

The *spellcheck* attribute helps provide feedback to users that a word they've entered is misspelled.
`<textarea id="otherCommentsText" rows="5" cols="20" spellcheck="true"></textarea>`

Suppose you don't want users to have to specify the HTTP protocol in a *url* type, but you want to allow only *.com* or *.ca* websites. This can be achieved by using the *pattern* attribute, which allows the use of a regular expression to define the pattern that should be accepted.

> EXAM TIP:
    The *pattern* attribute applies only to text boxes. It can't be used to override the validation built into the *email* or *url* types.

The following code shows the *pattern* attribute used to achieve the desired validation:
`<input type="text" title="Only .com and .ca are permitted." pattern="^[a-zA-Z0-9\-\.]+.(.com|.ca)$"/>`
Plenty of reg expression are available to validate a URL; this one is fairly simple. When specifying the *pattern* attribute, you should specify the *title* attribute as well. The *title* attribute specifies the error message to users in the tooltip when validation fails.

The *placeholder* attribute enables you to prompt users with what's expected in a certain text box.
Example: `<input type="email" placeholder="me@mydomain.com" /></td>`

To ensure that a user fills in a field, use the *required* attribute with the `<input>` element.
Example: `<input type="email" placeholder="me@mydomain.com" required/>`

* **Thought Experiment**
    + Creating dynamic forms: Building on the thought experiment from Objective 1.3, consider what you need to do to add custom validation to a control based on what a user has entered in the previous field. Having a dynamically created form where you can change the validation rules as a user progresses through the form can be quite powerful. Consider diff cultural variations to rules of phone numbers, postal codes, and email address suffixes. Describe how you would implement the validation so that you could provide context rich validation for the user.

    Answer:
    You've already seen how to get access to the DOM and modify elements through JS. By using these techniques, you can get a reference to the input controls on the form and, based on user input in certain elements, this can trigger modification to the validation rules (for example, change the reg expression validation dynamically). You can get regional context about a user from the Geolocation API. From this you can derive what part of the world the user is in and apply the exact validation on the input controls.

* **Objective summary**
    + Input controls such as *text* and *textarea* allow users to type info into a webpage.
    + Some input controls provide built-in validation, such as for URLs and email addresses.
    + Radio buttons and check boxes provide controls for users to select items in a list.
    + Reset and submit buttons control behavior of the HTML form.
    + Users can't modify the content of a control that has the *readonly* attribute assigned.
    + You can add a spelling checker to a text box to help users avoid spelling errors.
    + The *pattern* attribute helps define a regular expression for custom validation of formatted data.
    + The *required* attribute ensures that a field is populated before users can submit the form.

* **Objective Review**
    1. Which input control is better suited for allowing users to make multiple selections?
        + C: *checkbox*, allow multiple selections
    2. Which input control is designed to allow users to enter secure info in a way that keeps others from seeing what's typed?
        + D: *password*; A *password* input type hides the characters being entered.
    3. Which input control posts form data to a server?
        + B: Submit; The *submit* button invokes the forms submit action.
    4. Which of the following declarations are valid ways to make text control non-editable?
        + C: `<input type="text" readonly="yes"/>`
    5. How can you ensure that all necessary fields are populated before a form can be submitted?
        + C: Add the *required* attribute on each control so that users get a message that the field is required.

### Objective 3.2: Validate user input by using JavaScript
> EXAM TIP:
    Regular expressions tend to make their way onto the exams. You should prepare by studying them in more detail. An Internet search should yield many resources freely available on the topic. Be familiar with how to read an expression for such things as email addresses, URLs, and phone numbers, among other things.

Table 3-1 (page 212) Regular expression special characters: ^, $, ., [A-Z], \d, +, *, [^], ?, \w, \, \s

Canadian postal code example (A1A 1A1):
```
^[A-Z,a-z]\d^[A-Z,a-z][\s{1}]?\d^[A-Z,a-z]\d
```
This regex validates if there is a space between the two or not and is not case-sensitive.
Just like with strings and integers, regex are objs in JS. Rather than use " to encapsulate the expression, use the forward slash `/<expression>/` instead.
Going back to the postal code example:
```
<script type="text/javascript">
    function CheckString() {
        try {
            var s = $('#regExString').val();
            var regExpression = /^[A-Z,a-z]\d^[A-Z,a-z][\s{1}]?\d^[A-Z,a-z]\d/;
            if (regExpression.test(s))
                alert("Valid postal code.");
            else
                alert("Invalid postal code.");
        } catch (e) {
            alert(e.message);
        }
    }
</script>
<body>
    <form>
        <input type="text" id="regExString" />
        <button onclick="CheckString();" > Evaluate</button>
    </form>
</body>
```
You can also use the method called *exec* and it will return a string array instead of a Booleon. The return result is a string array is important to note because using regex can result in multiple matches.
The string obj also provides regex methods. The string provides the *search* and *match* methods. The *search method returns the index of a char in the string where the first match occurs. The *match* method returns the part of the string that matches the pattern, much like the *exec* method. In addition to those, we have *indexOf, split, and replace*.

> EXAM TIP:
    The example uses a regex to validate user input of data entered into the webpage. Keep in mind that data can come form anywhere, such as an RSS feed or back-end server providing JSON. In this context, where a website is expecting specifically formatted data, you can use regex to validate the incoming data and prevent the possible crashing of the website or at last errors being presented to users.

The *isNaN* function provides a way to evaluate whether the value passed into it isn't a number.
If the value isn't a num, the func returns true; if it is a num, it returns false. If the expected form of data being evaluated is numberic, this func provides a defensive way to determine this and handle it appropriately:
```
if (isNan(value)) {
    // handle the non number value
}
else {
    // proceed with the number value
}
```
The opposite of the *isNaN* func is the *isFinite* function. The *isFinite* func is used in the same way but returns true if the val is a finite num and false if it's not.

Code injection is a technique that attackers use to inject JS code into your webpage. These attacks usually take advantage of dynamically created content to have additional script run so that malicious users can try to gain some sort of control over the website.
As a webpage developer, you need to ensure that all user input is scrubbed of script elements. For example, don't allow `< >` text to be entered into the form. Without those chars, a script block can't be added.

The *eval* func is used to run JS dynamically. It takes a string as a param and runs it as a JS func. Never use the *eval* func against any data provided by an external source over which you don't have 100% control.

iFrames open up a new opportunity to attack. Search engines provide a plethora of results dealing w/ exploits regarding the use of iFrames. The *sandbox* attribute should always be used to restrict what data can be placed into an iFrame.

Table 3-2 (page 217) Available sandbox attribute values: "", allow-same-origin, allow-top-navigation, allow-forms, allow-scripts

* **Thought Experiment**
    + Encoding input data: The primary way in which malicious users seek out vulnerabilities in your webpages is through the use of code injections. These are used to find weaknesses in the code where malicious users could trick legit users into redirecting to a malicious site or -  worse - steal private data. What additional strategies can you design into your webpages to help prevent these types of attacks?

    Answer:
    The safest approach to restricting input data is to restrict the chars that a user can enter into a specific field. If a field is designed to accept only numeric data, ensure that the validation on that input control will allow only numeric data. The same is true for dates, text, and any other input that a user can freely type into. Regex simplify this type of validation by verifying that only the expected chars are entered. If a text box is expecting a person's name, don't allow HTML chars such as the `<` or `>` symbols to be input into the field. Also, restrict the field length so that it matches the type of the data expected. A field expecting the age of a person doesn't need to be 500 chars; you can probably get away with allowing only 3 chars.

* **Objective Summary**
    + Regex are strings of special chars that an interpreter understands and uses to validate text format.
    + Regex are objs in JS that provide methods for testing input data.
    + *isNaN* is a built-in function to determine whether a value isn't a number, whereas *isFinite* validates whether the value is a finite number.
    + Code injection is a technique that attackers use to inject malicious code into your application.
    + iFrames and dynamic JS are dangerous if not used properly in a webpage.

* **Objective review**
    1. Which of the following regex chars denote the end of the string?
        + A: $; the $ sign denotes the end of the string.
    2. Which of the following *sandbox* attributes allows the iFrame to load content from the containing HTML document?
        + D: *allow-top-navigation*; allows content form the containing HTML document
    3. Which function should never be used to run JS?
        + C: *eval*;

### Objective 3.3: Consume data
The two data formats commonly used in data transmission are JSON and XML.
The following are examples of what a person obj might look like in both formats where the person obj has a first name, last name, hair color, and eye color:
```
JSON:
    {firstName: "Rick", lastName: "Delorme", hairColor: "brown", eyeColor: "brown" }
XML (Elements):
    <Person>
        <firstName>Rick</firstName>
        <lastName>Delorme</lastName>
        <hairColor>Brown</hairColor>
        <eyeColor>Brown</eyeColor>
    </Person>
XML (attributes):
    <Person firstname="Rick" lastName="Delorme" hairColor="Brown" eyeColor="Brown"/>
```

JS provides built-in support for receiving HTML data via the *XMLHttpRequest* obj. The obj makes a call to a web service, REST API, or other data provider services.

Table 3-3 (page 219) Available events of the *XMLHttpRequest* object: Onreadystatechange, Ontimeout

Table 3-4 (page 220) Available methods of the *XMLHttpRequest* object: Abort, getAllResponseHeaders, getResponseHeader, Send, setRequestHeader, Open

Table 3-5 (page 220) Available properties of the *XMLHttpRequest* object: readyState, Response, responseBody, responseText, responseType, responseXML, Status, statusText, Timeout, withCredentials

In the simplest form, a request to the server using the *XMLHttpRequest* obj looks like this:
```
<script>
    $("document").ready(function () {
        $("#btnGetXMLData").click(function () {
            var xReq = new XMLHttpRequest();
            xReq.open("GEt", "myXMLData.xml", false);
            xReq.send(null);
            $("#results").text(xReq.response);
        });
    });
</script>
```
This script assumes a button on the HTML form and a div to show the results. A new *XMLHttpRequest* obj is created. The *open* method is called to specify the request type, URI, and whether to make the call asynchronous.

Table 3-6 Parameters for the *XMLHttpRequest open* method: Method, URL, async, User name, Password

> EXAM TIP:
    The *open* method doesn't make any server requests. If the user name and password is specified, it doesn't send this information to the server in the *open* method. When the *send* method is called, the user name and password aren't passed to the server either. The credentials are passed to the server only in response to a 401 security response from the server.

The *XMLHttpRequest* obj provides some mechanisms for handling errors. The most common error to account for is a timeout error. by default, the value of the timeout is zero, which is infinite. A timeout value should ALWAYS be specified.
```
var xReq = new XMLHttpRequest();
xReq.open("GET", "myXMLData.xml", false);
xReq.timeout = 2000;
xReq.ontimeout = function () {
    $("#results").text("Request Timed out");
}
xReq.send(null);
$("#results").text(xReq.response);
```
This results in not allowing the cal to take any more than two seconds. After the timeout period, the *ontimeout* event handler is called to allow for this condition to be handled appropriately in the webpage.

The same code that has been used so far to retrieve XML data can also be used to make a request for JSON data. The following update to the code shows this:
```
var XMLHTTPReadyState_COMPLETE = 4;

var xReq = new XMLHttpRequest();
xReq.open("GET", "myJSONData.json", true);
xReq.timeout = 2000;
xReq.ontimeout = function () {
    $("#results").text("Request Timed out");
}
xReq.onreadystatechange = function (e) {
    if (xReq.readyState == XMLHTTPReadyState_COMPLETE) {
        if (xReq.statue = "200) {
            $("#results").text(xreq.response);
        } else {
            $("#results").text(xReq.statusText);
        }
    }
}
xReq.send(null);
```

* **Thought Experiment**
    + Creating a webpage with a stock ticker: You are tasked with building a webpage for your client that involves a stock ticker. You need to provide real-time stock quotes to your page users in a scroll across the top of the page. Explain how you would build a web application that will do this dynamically without posting back the whole webpage.

    Answer:
    The task assigned here is builds a scroll across the top of the page is seen in many websites today. A stock price ticker is a typical application of this. This solution would potentially incorporate diff technologies. At its core, you can implement the *XMLHttpRequest* obj to make a call to an API that provides stock data. When the data is retrieved, you can display in the browser. Bc the solution calls for not posting the entire page, you would need to use dynamic DOM manipulation to display the results and have them scroll across the top of the page. Bc the quotes must be updated regularly, you would likely include the use of a timer to poll for the results at a regular interval.

* **Objective summary**
    + JSON and XML are the most common formats used for data exchange.
    + JSON consists of name/value pairs
    + XML is a structured element-based document.
    + JS provides built-in support for receiving data via the *XMLHttpRequest* obj.

* **Objective review**
    1. Which of the following is a valid JSON string?
        + D: {firstName: "Rick", lastname: "Delorme", hairColor: "brown", eyeColor: "brown"}; a JSON string is a series of name/value pairs where the name of the property is followed by a colon and a quoted string. Multiple name value pairs are comma separated.
    2. With the *XMLHttpRequest* object, which of the following properties provides the response in a human readable format?
        + C: *responseText* provides the result as text that's human readable.
    3. At which stage during an *XMLHttpRequest* are user credentials sent to the server?
        + D: Credentials are passed only if the server requests them with a return code 401.

### Objective 3.4: Serialize, deserialize, and transmit data
The concept of converting the data from one form to another is called *serialization* or *deserialization*.
With *serialization*, the data is put into a format for transmission. With *deserialization*, the transmitted data is converted into something that can be worked with, such as a custom obj.

The following code sends the XML data to the server:
```
var xmlData = "<Person firstName='Rick' lastName='Delorme' hairColor='Brown' eyeColor='Brown' />";
var xReq = new XMLHttpRequest();
xReq.open("POST", "/ReceiveXMLData.aspx", false);
xReq.responseType
xReq.send(xmlData);
```

The browser provides native support for working w/ JSON and XML. The JSON obj is available for converting a JSON string to and from an obj (serialize/deserialize). The following code shows how this is accomplished:
```
var person = {
    FirstName: "Rick",
    HairColor: "Brown"
};
var jsonPerson = JSON.stringify(person);
```
The person obj has been serialized into a JSON string that can be sent to an endpoint URL for processing. To return the person back to a person obj from a JSON string, the obj can be deserialized by using the *parse* method:
```
var req = new XMLHttpRequest();
req.open("GET", "MyJsonData.json", false);
req.send(null);
var jsonPerson = JSON.parse(req.responseText);
```

Capturing dynamic image data follows a similar pattern as w/ the other techniques reviewed. The key difference is now the *responsetype* property must be set to *blob*. The following code demonstrates retrieving a binary image obj and deserializing it into the webpage:
```
var xReq = new XMLHttpRequest();
xReq.open("GET", "orange.jpg", false);
xReq.responseType = 'blob';
xReq.send(null);
var blob = xReq.response;
document.getElementById("result").src = URL.createObjectURL(blob);
```
The *XMLHttpRequest* obj's *responseType* property has been set to *blob*. Then by using the response property to extract the binary data, the BLOB is passed to the *URL.createObjectURL* method. The *createObjectURL* method gives the *img* element a URL linking to the BLOB, and the image is displayed in the browser. For the inverse, the data can also be submitted to the server as soon as it's serialized into a BLOB:
```
var xReq = new XMLHttpRequest();
xReq.open("POST", "saveImage.aspx", false);
xReq.responseType = 'blob';
xReq.send(data);
```

Another available mechanism is to hook up to the form's *submit* event and handle the submission through JS. This is useful for submitting the form's data through an AJAX request so that users don't have to leave the current page while the request is being processed. The *form* element at its simplest is as follows:
```
<form id="signupForm" action="processSignUp.aspx">
</form>
```
The form in this case will post its data to the *processSignUp* server page for processing, which in turn should redirect users back to a confirmation page of some sort. The other option for handling the form's submission is to wire up the event in JS:
```
$("document").ready(function () {
    $("form").submit(function () {
    });
});
```
Iterating over all the form elements, capturing the data out of them, and constructing a query string for use with an AJAX call would be possible inside the click event. The following code reviews this concept:
```
$("form").submit(function () {
    var fName = $("#firstName").val();
    var lName = $("#lastName").val();
    var qString = "Last Name=" + lName + "&First Name=" + fName;

    $.ajax({
        url: 'processSignUp.aspx',
        type: "POST",
        data: qString,
        success: function(r) {
        }
    });
    return false;
});
```
The data from each filed in the form is exracted and concatenated into a query string to submit to the server from the AJAX call. Although this method is functional, it has some drawbacks. First, a form with many elements will cause this code to get long. As new elements are added, the code will need to be updated. There is another option in the form of a jQuery method called serialize().

jQuery provides a seamless way to encode data from an HTML form by traversing the form that's passed into it and looking for input boxes to construct and return a query string. Then the query string can be posted to the server for processing. The preceding code is rewritten like this:
```
$("form").submit(function () {
    var qString = $(this).serialze();
    alert(qString);
    $.ajax({
        url: 'processSignUp.aspx',
        type: "POST",
        data: qString,
        success: function (r) {
        }
    });
    return false;
});
```
In this case, the *jQuery.serialize* method handles the extraction of the data from all the input elements and creates the query string. The advantage of using this method - beyond saving a lot of code - is that the query string is also encoded.

> EXAM TIP:
    The *serialize* method requires that all elements have the *name* attribute specified. The preceding code works with the HTML modified as such:

```
<form id="signupForm">
    First Name:
    <input type="text" id="firstName" name="firstName"/><br/>
    Last Name:
    <input type="text" id="lastName" name="lastName"/><br/>
    <button type="submit">Submit</button>
</form>
```

The *serialize* method acts on any results from the selector that's passed into the $() segment of the jQuery.ONly successful controls are serialized - meaning, only controls that are in a valid state. For input controls such as checkboxes and radio buttons, only the ones that are in a selected start are considered. For radio buttons, bc the *name* attribute must be the same for them all to be considered in a radio button group, you would specify the *value* attribute to differentiate them in the query string:
```
<input type="radio" name="gender" value="m"/>Male
<input type="radio" name="gender" value="f"/>Female
```
The *jQuery.serialize* method makes the code involved to generate a query string of the parameters from a form such simpler to create and less error prone.

* **Thought Experiment**
    + Saving a form: IN Objective 3.1, a customer survey was built. Extending this concept, how can you use the XMLHttpRequest object to post the data captured in the form to the server? Before submitting the form, how can you process server-side validation in real time? Add validation to the form so that you can compare an email address entered against a database of email addresses to ensure that it hasn't been used before.

    Answer:
    In this application, you now need to know when users finish entering information into a field. You can use the *onblur* event for this. By hooking up *onblur* to the email field, you can use the *XMLHttpRequest* obj to send a request to the server to validate that the address is unique and hasn't been used before. The results of the data evaluation on the server are passed back in the response and can be used to highlight to users that the data isn't unique. This provides a much better user experience in that users don't need to wait until they fill out the entire form to have all the fields validated. Did you remember to encode the data before submitting it to the server to prevent an injection attack?

* **Objective Summary**
    + Browsers provide native support via the JSON object to work with serializing and deserializing JSON strings.
    + The *JSON.parse* method deserializes a JSON string into an object, and the *JSON.stringify* method serializes an object into a JSON string.
    + By setting the *XMLHttpRequest responseType* property to the value *'blob'*, you can retrieve binary data.
    + By default, the form submit action sends the entire page to the server (based on the action attribute) for processing.
    + Handling the *submit* event allows you to customize how the form data is posted to the server.
    + The *jQuery.serialize* method provides a convenient shortcut to convert specified input controls into a query string.

* **Objective Review**
    1. Which of the following code lines is the correct way to create an object form a JSON string stored in a variable called jsonString?
        + C: *var o = JSON.parse(jsonString);* This method is used to deserialize a JSON string into an object.
    2. Which of the following code lines allows an *XMLHttpRequest* to return binary data?
        + D: *request.responseType = 'blob';* The response object's *responseType* property must be set to 'blob'.
    3. How do you control what's sent to the server when submitting a form?
        + B: Handle the *submit* event of the form. Handling the *submit* event on the form allows you to intercept the form before submitting and perform custom actions with it.