---
layout: post
title: Week 12
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<!--more-->

**Notes on [A Woman's Place](http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2011/07/11/a-womans-place-ken-auletta)**

* Sheryl Sandberg is a management Goddess and helped Mark Zuckerberg build a very solid company.

**Notes on [Terrible Female Engineers](https://medium.com/@amyngyn/i-need-terrible-female-engineers-1023a2e973dd)**

* The problem starts when we reject women who don't fit this mold of excelling in every way. 

* **We shouldn't have to be any better than anyone else to belong in this field**

* "When you're a girl, you have to be everything. You ahve to be dope at what you do, but you have to be super sweet, and you have to be sexy, and you have to be this and you have to be that and you have to be nice, and you have to - it's like, I can't be all of those things at once. I'm a human being."

* Hire the best person for the job. If a woman sucks at software engineering, it is not sexist to ackowledge that. 

**Refactoring: Ch. 11-15**   
-- need to catch up on reading --

**What did I do this past week?**   
This past week, my group and I finished up our SWE project. We got everything running smoothly and hit all the requirements. We also finished up our topic of refactoring and the rest of the topics for the semester. 

**What's in my way?**   
Time is in the way. I'm trying to find to prep for all my final exams on the last week of class and for finals season, but it's been getting hard. I plan to schedule more thorough times throughout the weekdays to prep for finals.

**What will I do next week?**   
I plan to go back through all of the previous topics from this semester, especially recently because they haven't been sticking with me when I'm learning them. I plan to start my cheatsheet for our test and reread the bullet points about refactoring we discussed in class and in the book. 

**TIP-OF-THE-WEEK**   
[Zhongwen: Chiense-English Dictionary](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/zhongwen-chinese-english/kkmlkkjojmombglmlpbpapmhcaljjkde?hl=en) is a plugin that displays popup display boxes when you scroll over Chinese characters in your browser. I found it super helpful when reading Chinese and Japanese through my browser. 