---
layout: post
title: Week 8
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<!--more-->

**Notes on [Stability](https://www.cs.utexas.edu/users/fares/papers/Stability.pdf)**

* The classic definition of the word stability is: "Not easily moved."

* Classes that are heavily depned upon are "responsible". Responsible classes tend to be stable because any change has a large impact. 

* The most stable classes of all, are classes that are both Independent and Responsible. Such classes have no reason to change, and lots of reasons not to change. 

* The Stable Dependencies Principle (SDP)
> The dependencies between packages in a design should be in the direction of the stability of the packages. A package should only depend upon packages that are more stable that it is. 

* The Stable Abstractions Principle (SAP)
> Packages that are maximally stable should be maximally abstract. INstable packages should be concrete. The abstraction of a package should be in proportion to its stability. 

* A metric is not a god; it is meerely a measurement against an arbitrary standard. 

**Notes on [Why Extends is Evil](http://www.javaworld.com/article/2073649/core-java/why-extends-is-evil.html)**

* The first problem is that explicit use of concrete class names locks you into specific implementations, making down-the-line changes unnecessarily difficult. 

* If you override everything, the base class should really be an interface, not a class. There's no point in implementation inheritance if you don't use any of the inherited methods. 

**Refactoring: Ch. 1-2**

**What did I do this past week?**

**What's in my way?**

**What will I do next week?**

**TIP-OF-THE-WEEK**
