---
layout: post
title: Week 10
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

<!--more-->

**Notes on [What Should We Teach New Software Developers? Why?](http://cacm.acm.org/magazines/2010/1/55760-what-should-we-teach-new-software-developers-why/fulltext)**

* The Problem: Computer Science and Programming are two different things. Academia wants to teach Computer Science, but industries want to build software and want programmers. In industry, complains about the difficulty of finding grads who understand "systems" and "can architect software" care common and reflect reality. 

* But my Computer Hasn't Crashed Lately: Some industries deserve praise for their efforts to make software develoopment a mature and trsutworthy set of principles, tools, and techniques. Unfortunately, they are a minority and bloatware dominates most people's impression and thinking. Similarly, there are educators who have fought the separation of theory and industrial practice. They too deserve praise and active support.

* The Academia/Industry Gap: Many industrial systems consist of millions of lines of code, whereas a student can graduate with honors from top CS programs w/o ever writing a program larger than 1,000 lines. The idea of software development as an assembly line manned by semi-skilled interchangeable workers is fundamentally flawed and wasteful. It pushes the most competent people out of the field and discourages students from entering it. To break this vicious circle, academia must produce more graduates with relevant skills and industry must adopt tools, techniques, and processes to utilize those skills.

* Dreams of Professionalism: "Computer Science" is a horrible and misleading term. CS is not primarily about computers and it is not primarily a science. Rather it is about uses of computers and about ways of working and thinking that involves computation ("algorithmic and quantitative thinking"). Many organizations that rely critically on computing have become dangerously low on technical skills.

* Conclusion: Shrink the academia/industry gap by making changes on both sides. Some suggestions is to define a structure of CS education based on a core plus specializations and application areas, aiming eventually at licensing of software artifacts and at least some of the CS professionals who produce them. This might go hand-in-hand w/ an emphasis on lifelong industry/academia involvement for technical experts. 

**Notes on [The Joel Test: 12 Steps to Better Code](https://www.joelonsoftware.com/2000/08/09/the-joel-test-12-steps-to-better-code/)**

**The Joel Test**
1. Do you use source control?
2. Can you make a build in one step? 
3. Do you make daily builds?
4. Do you have a bug database?
5. Do you fix bugs before writing new code?
6. Do you have an up-to-date schedule?
7. Do you have a spec?
8. Do programmers have quiet working conditions?
9. Do you have testers?
10. Do you have testers?
11. Do new candidates write code during their interview?
12. Do you do hallway usability testing?

* A score of 12 is perfect, 11 is tolerable, but 10 or lower and you've got serious problems.

* Do you use source control?: If you don't have source control, you're going to stress out trying to get programmers to work together. Programmers have no way to know what other people did. Mistakes can't be rolled back easily. The other neat thing about source control systems is that the source code itself is checked out on every programmer's hard drive.

* Can you make a build in one step?: By this I mean: how many steps does it take to make a shipping build from the latest source snapshot? On good teams, there's a single script you can run that does a full checkout from scratch, rebuilds every line of code, make the EXEs,  in all their various versions, languages, and #ifdef combinations, creates the installation package, and creates the final media - CDROM layout, download website. whatever. 

* Do you make daily builds?: When you're using source control, sometimes one programmer accidentally checks in something that breaks the build. For example, they've added a new source file, and everything compiles fine on their machine, but they forgot to add the source file to the code repository. So they lock their machine and go home, oblivious and happy. But nobody else can work, so they have to go home too, unhappy. 

* Do you have a bug database?: Bug databases can be complicated or simple. A minimal useful bug database must include the following data for every bug:
	* complete steps to reproduce the bug
	* expected behavior
	* observed (buggy) behavior
	* who it's assigned to
	* whether it has been fixed or not

* Do you fix bugs before writing new code?: One reason to fix bugs right away: because it takes less time. There's another reason, which relates to the fact that it's easier to predict how long it will take to write new code than to fix an existing bug. 

* Do you have an up-to-date schedule?: There are too many planning decisions that the business needs to make well in advance of shipping the code: demos, trade shows, advertising, etc. And the only way to do this is to have a schedule, and to keep it up to date. 

* Do you have a spec?: Writing specs is like flossing: everybody agrees that it's a good thing, but nobody does it. Pet theory is that this problem can be fixed by teaching programmers to be less reluctant writers by sending them off to take an intensive crouse in writing. Another solution is to hire smart program managers who produce the written spec. In either case, you should enforce the simple rule "no code without spec". 

* Do programmers have quiet working conditions?: We all know that knowledge workers work best by getting into "flow", also known as being "in the zone", where they are full concentrated on their work and fully tuned out of their environment. They lost track of time and produce great stuff through absolute concentration. This is when they get all of their productive work done. The trouble is, getting into "the zone" is not easy. It takes on average 15 mins to get into the zone and it's very easy to get knocked out. 

* Do you use the best tools money can buy?: Writing code in a compiled language is one of the last things that still can't be done instantly on a garden variety home computer. If your compilation process takes more than a few seconds, getting the latest and greatest computer is going to save you time. **Tope notch development teams don't torture their programmers.**

* Do you have testers?: Have at least one tester for every two or three programmers. 

* Do new candidates write code during their interview?: You have to write code for an interview because you have to show the skill you are planning to use for the job everyday or else you will not hold up to the standards. 

* Do you do hallway usability testing?: Good user interface design is not as hard as you would think, and it's crucial if you want customers to love and buy your product. Most important thing about UI is that if you show your program to a handful of people, (in fact, five or six is enough) you will quickly discover the biggest problems people are having. Even if your UI design skills are lacking, as long as you force yourself to do hallway usability tests, which cost nothing, your UI will be much, much better.  

**Refactoring: Ch. 7-8**

**Chapter 7: Moving Features Between Objects**
* One of the most fundamental, if not the fundamental, decision in object design is deciding where to put responsibilities. Because of refactoring, you can change your mind in many cases.
* Move Method:
    * Motivation: Moving methods is the bread and butter of refactoring. Move methods when classes have too much behavior or when classes are collaborating too much and are too highly coupled. By moving methods around, you can make the classes simpler and they end up being a more crisp implementation of a set of responsibilities.
    * Mechanics:
        * Examine all features used by the source method that are defined on the source class. Consider whether they also should be moved.
        * Check the sub- and superclasses of the source class for other declarations of the method.
        * Declare the method in the target class.
        * Copy the code from the source method to the target. Adjust the method to make it work in its new home.
        * Compile the target class.
        * Determine how to reference the correct target object from the source.
        * Turn the source method into a delegating method.
        * Compile and test.
        * Decide whether to remove the source method or retain it as a delegating method.
        * If you remove the source method, replace all the references w/ references to the target method.
        * Compile and test.
* Move Field:
    * Motivation: Moving state and behavior between classes is the very essence of refactoring. As the system develops, you find the need for new classes and the need to shuffle responsibilities around. A design decision that is reasonable and correct one week can become incorrect in another. That is not a problem; the only problem is not to do something about it.
    * Mechanics:
        * If the field is public, use Encapsulate Field.
        * Compile and test.
        * Create a field in the target class with getting and setting methods.
        * Compile the target.
        * Determine how to reference the target object from the source.
        * Remove the field on the source class.
        * Replace all references to the source field w/ references to the appropriate method on the target.
        * Compile and test.
* Extract Class:
    * Motivation: You've probably heard that a class should be a crisp abstraction, handle a few clear responsibilities, or some similar guideline. In practice, classes grow. You add some operations here, a bit of data there. You add a responsibility to a class feeling that it's not worth a separate class, but as that responsibility grows and breeds, the class becomes too complicated. Soon you class is as crisp as a microwaved duck.
    * Mechanics:
        * Decide how to split the responsibilities of the class.
        * Create a new class to express the split-off responsibilities.
        * Make a link from the old to the new class.
        * Use Move Field on each field you wish to move.
        * Compile and test after each move.
        * Use Move Method to move methods over from old to new. Start with lower-level methods (called rather than calling) and build to the higher level.
        * Compile and test after each move.
        * Review and reduce the interfaces of each class.
        * Decide whether to expose the new class. If you do expose the class, decide whether to expose it as a reference object or as an immutable value object.
* Incline Class:
    * Motivation: Inline Class is reverse of Extract Class. I use Inline Class if a class is no longer pulling its weight and shouldn't be around any more. Often this is the result of refactoring that moves other responsibilities out of the class so there is little left. Then fold this class into another class, picking one that seems to use th runt class the most.
    * Mechanics:
        * Declare the public protocol of the source class onto the absorbing class. Delegate all these methods to the source class.
        * Change all references from the source class to the absorbing class.
        * Compile and test.
        * Use Move Method and Move Field to move features from the source class to the absorbing class until there is nothing left.
        * Hold a short, simple funeral service.
* Hide Delegate:
    * Motivation: One of the keys, if not THE key, to objects is encapsulation. Encapsulation means that objects need to know less about other parts of the system. Then make things change, fewer objects need to be told about the change-which makes the change easier to make.
    * Mechanics:
        * For each method on the delegate, create a simple delegating method on the server.
        * Adjust the client to call the server.
        * Compile and test after adjusting each method.
        * If no client needs to access the delegate anymore, remove the server's accessor for the delegate.
        * Compile and test.
* Remove Middle Man:
    * Motivation: Every time the client wants to use a new feature of the delegate, you have to add a simple delegating method to the server. After adding features for a while, it become painful. The server class is just a middle man, and perhaps it's time for the client to call the delegate directly.
    * Mechanics:
        * Create an accessor for the delegate.
        * For each client use of a delegate method, remove the method from the server and replace the call in the client to call method on the delegate.
        * Compile and test after each method.
* Introduce Foreign Method:
    * Motivation: Don't forget that foreign methods are work-arounds. If you can, try to get the methods moved to their proper homes. If code ownership is the issue, send the foreign method to the owner of the server class and ask the owner to implement the method for you.
    * Mechanics:
        * Create a method in the client class that does what you need.
        * Make an instance of the server class the first parameter.
        * Comment the method as "foreign method; should be in server.".
* Introduce Local Extension:
    * Motivation: A local extension is a separate class, but it is a subtype of the class it is extending. That means it supports all the things the original can do but also adds the extra features. Instead of using the original class, you instantiate the local extension and use it.
    * Mechanics:
        * Create an extension class either as a subclass or a wrapper of the original.
        * Add converting constructors to the extension.
        * Add new features to the extension.
        * Replace the original with the extension where needed.
        * Move any foreign methods defined for this class onto the extension.

**Chapter 8: Organizing Data**
* One of the useful things about object langs is that they allow you to define new types that go beyond what can be done with the simple data types of traditional langs.
* Self Encapsulate Field:
    * Motivation: When it comes to accessing fields, there are two schools of thought. ONe is that within the class where the variable is defined, you should access the variable freely (direct variable access). The other school is that even within the class, you should always use accessors (indirect variable access).
    * Mechanics:
        * Create a getter/setter method for the field.
        * Find all references to the field and replace them with a getting or setting method.
        * Make the field private.
        * Double check that you have caught all references.
        * Compile and test.

........

**What did I do this past week?**
This past week, I've spent my mornings working on our SWE group project with my partner Ben for frontend. Also, working on my security project with another parter. The program involved huffman encodings. I also spent most of my time studying for 2 Japanese tests. 

**What's in my way?**
What's in my way is getting prepped for interviews. I think companies are now looking to hire, so I'm prepping and brushing up on my data structures and algorithms and working on some coding challenges. Also, I did not finish my refactoring notes because I've been side-tracked with a coding challenge from a company for a chance to interview with them. 

**What will I do next week?**
I will finish up my notes for Refactoring and catch up on my reading for SWE. I have another security project due, so I'll work on that very shortly. I'll probably try to restart my blog where it's not using Jekyll. There's way too many files that I don't know what it is doing. I'm trying to get into UI/UX design as well, so I'll make some templates to see what I would want for my new website. It's pretty exciting stuff :) 

**TIP-OF-THE-WEEK**
If you have a webpage and want to know some statistics about it, you can use [Google Analytics](https://analytics.google.com/). Super easy to set up! 
Here is the [documentation](https://developers.google.com/analytics/devguides/collection/analyticsjs/) to set up.